# Chapter 1: The events that led me to Tibet

  Hello Hello! I’ve been expecting you. I’m Oanh from Vietnam, pronounced like one two three One, and I’m a storyteller. I am here to serve you an ancient art: the art of storytelling. My stories settings are based on real traveling and living experience. The events shall remain as factual as a dream, and who would question a dream? 
  Structure wise, this story is much alike the Arabian Nights. We meet nightly in a chapter, which lasts twenty minutes, and venture together. 
  Alright, for the first story, I shall tell you about my very first solo backpacking trip to Tibet - the land of Snow, the kingdom of Buddhism. We will follow a mythology through the Potala palace, the Buddhist monasteries, the sacred lakes, Mount Everest base camp. In the next fifteen minutes, I will explain how this journey started, why Tibet, and who I was. Alright, let the story begin.

  To give you some idea, I was in Vietnam until I was eighteen. And then, I went to university and graduate school in Japan, and now working in Tokyo. I traveled to Tibet on New Year 2020, but the leading to that trip started five years before that. 
  I was alone in my college library in Kyushu, south Japan. My college stood on top of a mountain, overlooking the Beppu bay. Nighttime had washed away fervent greenery. Moonlight on the grasses fluttered under the wind like blistering strips of the moon on the dark ocean. I was wandering abreast the aisles, rambling with the books. You know, just like we read a book, the book says a lot about ourselves. Books can read our mind and speak to our heart. The library became a cave with all its treasures of human’s wisdom. As I was deep in that cave, a listless voice rose as if of a supernatural force.
  “The library will be closing in five minutes. If you want to borrow or return books, please come to the counter.”
  The omnipotent announcement had that terror inducing effect - like Alibaba, I must leave the cave with all the treasure of human wisdom I could carry, before the forty thieves returned. 
  At once I headed to the nearest exit. The dictionaries and The Lonely Planet travel guides closed in on me, but I got past them all. The light of the exit were steps away, when, from the corner of my eyes, emerged a tiny book, on the bottom rack of a shelf. Someone must have returned it carelessly, leaving the book midway. So I stopped and picked it up. The title read “Seven years in Tibet”, by Heinrich Harrer.

  What is this about, you ask? It is an autobiography of an Austrian mountaineer, who in World War II was trying to climb the Himalaya. He was imprisoned in India, then a British colony, but escaped with a fellow climber. They crossed the border, entered Tibet and travelled all the way to Lhasa, and spent seven years there. Sir Harrer even became a tutor of the Dalai Lama, who was then a teenager. Now, the magnificence of the story is that, for hundreds of years, no foreigner ever entered Lhasa. And then, when someone did, he wasn’t Chinese, wasn’t Indian, but a westerner. The book is forbidden in Tibet, but I will tell you again when I, another foreigner, entered Lhasa.

  Back to the story. I borrowed the book that night. The next two days, I fully immersed in and actually finished binge watching a season of “The Bachelor”, while “Seven years in Tibet” collected dust in a corner. When I finally got to the book, I was enraptured by the glacier-capped mountains, the butter milk, the conversations with Dalai Lama, the expensive fragranced handkerchieves, so much so that I put “visiting Tibet” in my To-do-before-25 list. I also wished to visit Europe, to live in a cosmopolitan apartment with eclectic furniture, to, to, to, the usual “to”s that girls put in their wish list when they outgrow Santa Claus. (When do girls outgrow Santa Claus? When “Have you been bad this year?” sounds naughty) Anyhow, at least, traveling to Europe and stylish apartment were sensible wishes. Visiting Tibet wasn’t a wish, more a sub delirium thrown in the mix for fun. I shared the list on Facebook with my best friend, we had a good laugh and forgot about it. 

  Four years went by. At that point, I had graduated from university, moved to Tokyo for grad school, met and loved a great man, went jobhunting, lost the great man, got a job. This was August 2019. I was working part-time while writing my thesis. One day, without a warning, Facebook reminded me of my To-do-before-25 list. My best friend texted me, half-jokingly: “You are almost twenty-five, and you haven’t done any of these things.”
  Ouch!
  It struck me that she was not only right, but relevant. I procrastinated because I was dirt poor, but now I made some money. I might as well spend money like people with some money do: follow a life wish list, especially when my birthday was in February. Six months to go. 

  I remembered looking up the price to visit Europe. Basically a kidney and an eye ball. To find a great apartment, and to exteriorize it with characteristics, another kidney and eye ball. The possible to-do list depleted, and I just wanted to get one thing done. Tibet however was always wishful thinking, not a real option. Defeated, I went for a stroll. 
  My area was Shimo-kitazawa, the hippy old school neighborhood of Tokyo, the time capsule for the 80s baggy denim pullover and black circle glasses, the obstentious hub of subculture. In August, Shimo-Kitazawa celebrated many weekly street markets, and that breezy evening, I strolled into one. Stalls were erected next to buskers who blew fire out of their throats. College kids and grandpas alike walked about in all sorts of flashy outfits. Next to them, imported English publications spilled over the brim of the sidewalk, next to handmade leather pouches and garden miniature houses, dream catchers and vinyl records. It was like a carnival. 
  At one stall, there were some comics in the series “Adventure of Tintin''. A childhood favourite, a Belgian comic/cartoon series. On top of that pile of comics was an album with a red circle in the middle of endless snow background. The black Mangal-font title read “Tintin in Tibet”.
  Quite funny, because Fate, would usually be more subtle. This time, Fate took a pretty heavy handed, in-your-face approach, not even tried to hide its attempt. There and then, I decided to buy all the Tintin comics, a hundred yens each. And of course, I also decided to go to Tibet. You had to be pretty thick to miss the sign this time.
  That Tintin comic series still reside in my apartment as we speak. In particular, The Tibet album was bestowed an award by the Dalai Lama himself, no less. You see, everything was decided for me. In as much as I had a choice, I could only make choices among the options that Fate offered. Some events were destined to happen. This time, Fate would take me across the oceans, through a thirty six hour train ride, into the monasteries and palaces, to witness the taking off of hundreds of bar-headed geese, the monks discussions, the bar where a Dalai Lama wrote love poems, the murals of Buddhist stories, the Tibetan lion-sized mastiff. 
  That, was how my adventure to Tibet began, and how tonight’s bedtime story ends.
  No but. We agree each chapter shall last no more than twenty minutes.
  Thank you for joining me. It was a pleasure. See you soon!
