# Tibet 2: How I trained for Tibet

  Hello hello! Someone is excited to read more. Let us continue then. 
Ahh right. Let see, I selected the western and Japanese new year holiday. I researched basic itineraries and tour dates. 

P: Why did you go on tour? I thought you said you went backpacking?


Ahh, You see, unlike other places, traveling to Tibet requires going on tour. Don’t worry, I spent plenty of time backpacking.

To prepare for Tibet, I thought of these four things:
 
Services: booking a tour, transportation, lodging. 
Planning: Creating a schedule, where, when, what, how much. 
Paperworks: Applying for visa, permits.  
Self-training: physically, linguistically
  
First, services. 
In September, I got in touch with the travel agent, learnt that I had to enter Lhasa by myself.
Since there was no direct international flight to Lhasa, either I entered from mainland China or from Nepal. I picked Xian, a city east of China, based on other travellers’ advices, but mostly, based on flight dates from Tokyo. As the saying goes, the sky's the limit. I also booked lodging in Xian on booking.com. The facility was lovely: local, tourist-friendly, walking distance from the train station.

Now, from Xian, there are two options to enter Lhasa: a thirty six hour train ride or a direct flight. On the train, I could enjoy the view, and it was also economical. The travel agent was enthusiastic to help me book a train ticket, soft berth seat, but not so enthusiastic after I chose the hard berth, cheaper seat. Asoft berth means sharing a room with three other passengers, while the hard berth meant five. 

As a minor detail, the agent asked if I wanted a single hotel room or shared room in Lhasa. I went straight for the shared room. 

The agent then sent me the contract and information. 

In their own words: “When applying for a visa to China, do not mention Tibet since it may be denied.” There was a well prepared itinerary made just for the visa application process, with inland tourist spots and hotels.

After five back and forth emails, I finally confirmed my trip: a Lhasa-Yamdrok-Everest Base Camp six-day tour. This package covered tour guide, entrance tickets, transportation during the tour, hotel room and breakfast, returned train tickets between Xian and Lhasa, totalling 600 dollars. 
That week, I spent 340 dollars on the tour deposit, and another 900 on the Tokyo - Xian returned plane ticket. So long, four months of living expenses!

Next, was the Chinese visa. As instructed, I went to Kamiyacho in Tokyo to apply. Some questions were asked, namely what I did for a living, where I would stay and visit in China. I showed the itinerary prepared by the travel agent. A notification for pickup was issued. 

That’s pretty much all the planning and services.

P: You must be excited.

No, actually I did not think of it with anticipation, just peace of mind knowing the procedures were almost done. At that point, the trip was like a project assigned by fate, and by the young, impulsive Oanh. I did not plan to go to Tibet because I enjoyed travelling, but because I had to go. The joy of travelling was byproduct. 

Autumn leaves do not fall because they enjoyed gilding human walks. They just have to fall. The streets adorned with golden memories is byproduct. And that’s how September went by. 

From October, I started run-commuting twelve kilometers daily to brace for Tibetan climbs. 
That month, typhoon Habigis caused train delay, so my colleagues could not go to work. I didn’t even know about the typhoon. It was just some chilling winds on my running path. Compared to Tibet, I imagined those winds nothing more than a blow on birthday candles.
At the end of October, I went to pick up my China’s visa in a downpour, forwarded it to my travel agent, so they could apply for my Tibet permit.

In the morning of the 31st, I went out to Shibuya scramble crossing to look at the F21 billboard. Ten years earlier, the fast fashion retail giant came to Japan and errected that billboard. It became a landmark in the Shibuya sky, a Shibuya’s “skymark.” The thirty first, was F21’s last opening day. Huge sale. I hoardded innerwears for the Tibet trip, and running clothes.

On Halloween night, some Shibuya drunkyards turned a coach over, and some foreigners occupied the Yamanote train line intoxicated and masked. I was busy sending my first thesis draft to my supervisor. How boring was I.

From November, I practiced cold showers, in case there was no hot water in Lhasa. That month, I had a health check up. A nurse put my chest to an Xray machine, and asked me to inhale - exhale deeply. She was shook to see my X-ray, and asked me right away: 
“Do you run?”
“Yes, I do.” 
“No wonder, I knew you must be exercising. Your lung expanded quite a bit.” She giggled. Maybe it was a sign that I was on the right track.

Another thing needed for the trip, was survival Chinese. I learnt the basics, such as asking for the road, counting, and barganing, with Duolingo, twenty minutes every day. 

November was income tax reporting season, so work piled up. Coupled with my supervisor in Germany on sabatical, I hardly got any school work done.
In the middle ofthe month, there was also a survey about dorm moveout schedule.
 
It all became too real. Except for Thursday in the library, I had no other student space but my dorm. The moment I moved out, I would not longer live like a student. Society would start expecting things from me. I would soon uproot and make myself a new home, a new life. 

Travelling to Tibet was an escape from the transition. In that faraway land, no one had to be of any status. I thought about my friends. They are the precious presents of life, the result of years of cultivating trust and respect. They are parts of my roots in Tokyo, a reminder of my inescapable transition. But they were not with me on that trip, and I thanked myself for it. 

At the end of November, I joined my company’s annual party. The hype of the party had been played up since the beginning of the month, so I had set out the look for it two weeks before. I had on an elegant, plain black dress with a clear waist line, no sleeve. To add a little touch, I had on a pair of earrings: a bunch of layered gold and purple gold leaves. THe party was nice, but I could not find where the earrings went afterwards.

In December, workload decreased. My first thesis draft received positive feedbacks, and on the fifteenth of December, I submitted my second draft for review. With less distractions, the Tibetan journey appeared more real every day. 

On the first week of December, the travel agent asked again if I wanted a room change. There was no female guest to pair up, so I would have to share the room with an Indian man. What outrage, a girl of virtue would not go through with it. My mother demanded a room change. My father laughed. Me, I thought this was a trap, a sort of compensation for the soft berth missed offer. Let’s even indulge in the scenario that this was no trap, I paid for a single room, the Indian man paid for a double room, and both of us would get the same service! If there were one person to change room, why would that person be me? So, no room change. 

By this point, I had gained better control of my breath and strength thanks to running. I tried basic Chinese with my Chinese colleagues during lunch time. I exchanged enough Japanese yens to Chiense yuans. I did not slip out a word about Tibet to my friends.

It was finally the week of the event. The day would be the 27th, friday. 
On Monday, it dawned on me that I had not prepared any cold climate outfits. No down jacket, no snow boots. Somehow, I picked up Chinese and strength training, but my brain did not register outer wears. 
Luckily, a colleague lent me his down jacket on Wednesday evening. Before handing me the item, he made me solemnly swear to protect the jacket with my life, because it was “unbelivably expensive”. If I were to die in the snow mountains, I better have Yeti fed-exed the jacket back to him. 
“So Oanh, where are you going?” he asked.
“Tibet.”
“Wow, that’s cool. So, when are you going?”
“Friday.” 
His eyes widened, and he nodded like a bubble head doll. Two days to go, no boots, no backpack, barely a down jacket, I deserved it.
“You know, there is this shop, you should go check it out.” Said my kind colleague.

On Thursday, fortunately my designated day off, I rushed to the recommended shop called “Maunga” in Kichijoji, a fifteen minute train from my dorm. I went in empty handed, and came out with a perfectly fitted pair of warm, sturdy, light boots, a 40 litre brightly red backpack, a pair of sun glasses, a neck warmer, a warm hat, a pair of thick gloves, and two pairs of thick, long wool socks, all for 250 dollars. 

That evening, I finally sat down to pack. Everything was divided into the big red and the small running backpacks. Clothes, money, charger, extra charger, cables, conversion, tickets, information, extra socks and paper undergarments. 

I checked off everything in my list and grinned uncontrollably. The adrenaline of managing things in the last minute was unrepressible. 

I thought the great man that loved, and felt asleep like I always did.

Oh dear, it is ten. Pikachu, let’s stop here and go brush your teeth. 

P: So tomorrow night, you would finally go on adventures?

O: Yes. Now, it’s time to sleep.
