Train fiasco: The train arrived twenty five minutes late. Everyone was anxious. When I arrived at the platform, my friend's seat was in Car 12. There was no Car 12. Harry Potter much? I followed the train staff like glue, waiting for them to check their phone. The train seemed to be moving soon, and the big group of people waiting with me had gone on the train by then. I freaked out, only for the staffs to tell me “Not to worry.” If they said so. They walked tiredly up, telling me to go to Car 1. My instinct told me to run, and I ran up the train. As I gathered just enough breath from my leap into the cabin, the train...left the station. Had I listened to those staffs not to worry and joined them in their walk, I would have been waiting for the next train. Of all the problems I have had until then, that attitude of those staff was the most unacceptable kind. 

That was where I understood more about service. Good service anesthetizes instinct. Bad service intensifies instinct. I have not a pinch of agency or self navigation with Japanese trains. Things get delivered and instructed even before I need to ask. I did not need to ask for the toilet, or the warm tissue in that land where the sun rises. Every circuit is well designed to every human needs. Here, “not to worry” is my nightmare. How do you relax when someone is late?

Let me explain all my drama with being late. Here, the train does not run every five minutes. To go all the way to Tibet, I get two chances. Even so, the ticket must be booked in advance, and one ticket is not cheap. Especially since my destination is Tibet, the requirements are more complicated. I had to book a ticket via my travel agency, which led to the next fiasco. 

As you remembered, earlier, there was no Car 12, but I was accepted on Car 1. My ticket was pink, while others had blue ones. The conductor told me to wait near his conductor room. He was making some arrangements, and other staff gathered. My translation app was constantly in action. They had my passport, my Tibet permit, my ticket. I was a vagabond. After a good thirty minutes, they put me in a room with six hard sleeping berths. I finally had a corner to put my backpacks in. At this point, I vaguely figured out what had been happening. Many years ago, when the Vietnamese train system was not as improved (so I have heard), I had faced a similar situation. The staff have unofficial slots, where they would fit a guest in the empty or not shown beds. Sometimes, a guest who went from A to C will be put in one bed from A to B, and another bed from B to C, due to the earlier one being officially bought from B to C. My guess is as good as yours, and my worry the whole way was that some guest would show up and take my bed. Out to the corridor, I would go again, waiting for another empty berth to enter. I was paying just as much as the next guy. 

Train ride: At 10:10 in the morning, the train left Xi’an, traveling west. The next stop would be Lanchou. 
Of all the trips I had been up to that point, I liked Nikko the most. Japan’s Nikko, over Kyoto, over Seoul, over Saigon, over Sapa. I was not well traveled, but each of those trips were packed with memories and excitement. Seoul filled me with memories of a pilgrimage for me before twenty five. Every day I went until exhausted, chasing the Korean cinematic experiences. K-POP, fashion, friendship, the vanity of youthful beauty. I remembered feeling invincible. Kyoto-Nara was a trip I went with my parents for my graduation from college. I was proud of it, because I had saved my part time job earnings to finance my parents throughout that trip. I was happy to invite them to Kyoto middle fancy restaurants with my own money, and I was happy to show them every bit of Japan I could afford within thirteen days. Saigon during my cousin’s wedding was exotic and exciting, with people moving and thriving. Sapa was quiet and loving.
But Nikko was my favorite. By the end of this piece of travelogue, I would be able to explain why. Then, I was not. Nikko on the train was calming. There was nothing outstanding about it, just a little town with shops closing too early, and cakes well baked. A lot of trains and buses in endless greenery. If you ever read Fumiko Hayashi’s Floating Cloud, or Yasunari Kawabata’s Dandelions, you would reach a point where the characters stay in an inn. There was nothing special about the place they stay, but the cold, and the fleeting stillness. Your senses were heightened, your skin felt softer, and your heart pondered. Nikko gave that kind of feeling. Tibet did not, yet I thought about Nikko on my way to Tibet. I wonder if I would ever enjoy traveling? Would Tibetan winds knock on my closed heart, carrying the whispers of Nikko? Traveling only makes me more upset about my emotional deficit. 
Out of Dingxi 定西, the train caught up with the snowy mountains and plain white fields. On both sides, farmers laid bare dried corn stalks, piling brown after brown on the landscape. Grasses slanted like the arch of the farmers’ back under strong winds, but they were still rather than being swayed. Rivers turned into veins of ice to the heart of the land. No blowing wind, no flowing water, the cold had ceased all movement. What was life without movement? Maybe if I stepped outside the train, I would cease to exist. Death through the thick glass looked like winter fields. But the earlier snow was nowhere to be seen now. The sun was harsh here. 

What a stinking smell, cigarette. Who would smoke in the train cabin? Apparently, a man on his third floor berth. After I left my family to study abroad, I have isolated myself from that smell. My dad is a heavy smoker, and once I was given the choice, I would never want it around me. Now, that stinking smell reminds me of his nasty addiction. As a semi-serious runner, I have very vulnerable lungs. I breathed in more air than others. Even little kids passing by had to cover their noses.

At six in the afternoon, the train had covered two thirds of the way from Lanchou to Xining. The sky grew drab, the view felt somberly unchanged, the people’s eyes looked rayless. One berth roommate, a man of modest size wearing denim, sat down opposite me in the narrow foldable chair by the window. He looked down, his hand phone-less. The Chinese music played on the train became the background music for the topography we passed by. Without the music, would we know if it was China’s soil? If I took a leaf that fell down in China, and placed it on the ground of another country, was it still a Chinese leaf? The man hummed after the music. He liked to sing. The time we are living in has no place for people who like to hum after real music. I hummed too. The time we are living in has no place for people who like to take the train. On the train, we are bound to not run away. Among strangers, we must think about who we are. 太多 Tai Duo ``Too much,” the instrumental piece that was played, was not the singing version I used to. The song made more sense with the stretching scenery than long-drawn human romance. Human romance can be drawn out long, but the human dies and romance ends. It was unnatural for humans to draw out unhappy romance to a lifetime reminiscence, and compare “undying” love with nature. “I will love you until the ocean dries out, until the mountain plains down.” Maybe that kind of romance existed, but I was too emotionally deficit and shallow to pursue it.      
 
At six fifty in the evening, the train reached Xining. I had to change trains, waiting for the staff to stuff me into another car. Only then did I realize I had been the only foreigner since the TerraCotta museum. The sky had now fallen to the earth; no skyline was visible in the oil black. I got on the Xining - Lhasa route, a much fancier train. Everyone seemed more educated and with that, richer. I found car twelve, but it was occupied by people with blue tickets. They asked me, to which I repeated my
“I am not Chinese, I cannot speak Chinese.” 
They said: 
“Yingyu meiquanqi,” which means “English is fine.” 
Somehow they expected me to understand that phrase in Chinese. I did. Chinese movies taught me more than I realized. I explained in English, and they offered to help. I had to refuse. Bothering good people, not my cup of troubles. As with the last time, the staff told me to wait. At least I got on the train to Lhasa, they could not kick me out.

Around twenty o’clock, the staff took me all the way to the middle car, and one new staff member took my backpack to car number three. He said through the translation app, to go look for him if I had any trouble. He was kind, but this arrangement was not. In my room, I had several new roommates. The staff took my pink ticket, and gave me hard card, the berth ticket.

30 tháng 12
At two in the morning, I woke up. My roommate was up in silence. Didn’t he sleep? I reached for the water bottle, trying not to wake the others. The train stopped. The staff went to my room, called the berth number of the awake man, and exchanged the berth ticket for the train ticket. He would get down at this station, it turned out. We had reached Ge'ermu 格尔木.
Ge'ermu situated in Qinghai, an area with many Man clans. All the locations in Bandung map have a similar structure of title: a strange Chinese character, the work 格, and the word “clan”, the names of Man clans in Qing movies. Xining, the capital of Qinghai, was a town of glam, with highrises growing more than trees, and lights thicker than stars. I thought Qing clan areas were not this glamorous. The western part of this country is made up of two autonomous areas, Xinjiang and Tibet. Xinjiang is home to many famous Chinese beauties such as Dilireba, Gulinaza or Tong Liya. They have traveled a long way to coastal metropolitans. It was regrettable I did not stop in Xinjiang to see the free spirited life there. An eye estimation on Baidu map revealed that Tibet and Xinjiang together were almost as big as South Asia. Thanks largely to the Mongols, Chinese territory was considerably expanded. Compared to pre Mongol China, North Vietnam was of a decent size, not overwhelmingly smaller than current China. Such thoughts of past lives never go anywhere. 
 A feeling of pride and passion surged inside me. I knew that feeling, the spirit of adventure, the restless zeal of overnight reading. When I was a kid, my childhood heroes were the Vietnamese hero Quang Trung, or the Chinese Monkey king in Journey to the West. They bore physically weary conditions, they walked through exotic lands, they harnessed nature and inspired humans. This intense feeling was identical to what I felt when I came across a decent idea. I was taken over with ecstasy. Were you to chop off my hands, I would explode. I was served a heavy dose of ecstasy.

The zeal to experience the topography of passing lands reminded me of my maternal grandfather. He was a geography and history teacher. When I was a kid, ma-grandpa loved watching a documentary about the Mekong river, filmed when the river was still spelled with “C” instead of “K” in Vietnamese. In 1956-57s, ma-grandpa went to China to study abroad and brought home his interest in Chinese works. Only when he passed away did I read Dream of the Red Chamber in his bookshelf. That was seven springs ago. If he could join me on this trip, he would be just as zealous as I was, telling stories until the land came alive. My cousin was the only one in the family who went on to major in geography. I should have dragged her on this trip.

Living in the peak of civilization - Tokyo - for too long, and I had forgotten this spirit of adventure. Once in a while I reconcile myself to such a challenge to sharpen my survival instincts. Travelling has never been about relaxation, thus Nikko was my exception. I did not go on a tour, and only armed myself with some health, instinct, some knowledge, a big smile and luck. Solo-travelling was impossible without a smile. That smile showed vulnerability, which triggered strangers’ desire to help. 
When I was struggling with a secured seat on the train, the thought of taking a flight sprung up. Now, at this late hour by the blurry window, in the calming shakes of the train and nothing else, I got to think about this journey, this life, the emotions twirling among concerns of livelihoods. Why does someone who enjoys adventure to the extent of innocent recklessness rarely travels, nor likes to travel? I guess I like routines. I wanted adventure, and I also wanted to stay home to take care of my family. I wonder if other girls shared my sentiments. I like having a husband and children, although I never imagined how hard it would be. People are conflicting, but not to such bipolarity. On the one hand was a gal with a humongous red backpack, trekking shoes and bare face solo-travelling to Tibet in frozen seasons. On the other hand, a clerk reckoned the office’s fashion chameleon, always on high heels and pretty made-up face.

At seven thirty eight the next morning, I woke up, only sleeping three hours. All my roommates had got down at Geermu. The sky was as dark as black velvet, due to the China-unified administrative time that did not reflect local time. It was minus nineteen degrees Celsius outside the train.
At nine, ice rivers had covered surfaces, with some rivers flowing in the middle. The sunrise highland was raw and out-stretched to the horizon. How could people come into such deep land, erect electricity poles, construct roads and bridges. I had been on the train for twenty four hours, passing almost six time zones.
At nine forty nine and minus twenty two degrees, we reached Tibet. Snow white-coated the ground with silver linings under the sun. Several footsteps could be spotted. I wonder who would walk here. 

At twelve thirty one and minus thirteen degrees. The weather was not as cold as I had expected. The first Tibetans to get on the train joined my room. The family joining me included a boy shy of three, wearing a robot backpack, and his parents. The child’s cheeks were like a burning plum. The parents shoved gunny sacks under the low berth. The mother then took off her very luscious fur skirt and folded it neatly by the berth. They had sun-weathered faces, not the type of indoor middle class. The child yawned but did not forget to grab on to his parents. People who do parenting must be able to protect others, I thought. They did not speak Chinese. 

This was the end of my trip from Incheon, Korea to Lhasa, Tibet, China. In total, I flew five hours thirty minutes, slept at the airport one night, sat on a taxi for sixty minutes, visited a museum for an hour and a half, sat on the bus forty minutes, on the metro fifteen minutes, slept at the hostel one night, stayed on the railroad thirty six hours. I had been supported along the way by seven Chinese people, who helped me exchange money, get a data sim, keep my luggage, find the way to the hostel, buy metro tickets, and show me the Chinese hospitality. I want to thank them all with my best of heart. You put out your hand to a stranger, and your good deeds will bring you good karma. To my readers, in the next part, I will take you to my days in Tibet, with its adventure, its animals, its foods, its fashion, and maybe its romance. Treasures, friendship, budding love awaits. I’m the Life joy pirate. 
