In front of our eyes, empty terrain was interrupted by a high mountain. This was Mount Gambo Utse, the entrance to Drepung monastery. An array of souvenir shops stood without a soul in sight. 

Lekhsey led us up a flat, wide stone staircase where we chanced upon several Tibetan visitors. They wore thick jackets like my churpa, their cheeks reddened and their eyelids puffed. Some carried a flask for what, I knew not. Before long, we could start taking in some city views on our left side. There was a cat heading down with the shade of Lhasa dawn on its fur. The time was ten in the morning, yet we still had our early daylight thanks to the Beijing time difference. 

At the end of the slope was a large, bare ground, surrounded by a freshwater drainage. Bouts of locals were bending down to wash their hands. I thought of Japan, where there was a whole water purification procedure before entering a temple. Here, there was no instruction on which hand to wash first and no wooden ladle to scoop the water. Before Japan, I never thought washing hands needed a protocol. I bent down and combed my fingers in the current, basking in the babbling brooks, the chattering voices, the aurora furred cat, and the many Lhasa’s daily artefacts. As my feet dug into the soil and my fingertips hovered in the cold water, I mused about the fact that I was touching nature. Did the Buddha feel the same as I did? 
“Oanh!” called Wiseman.
Lekhsey gathered us on the bare ground.
“Here, the elevation is about 3800 meters, just 200 meters higher than Lhasa yeah? So the Gelug section was founded by Je Tsongkhapa. He was the first teacher of the first Dalai Lama and Panchen Lama. This monastery was founded by his disciple Jamyang Choge Tashi Palden in 1416, yeah? This monastery is called Drepung, Drepung Monastery. In Tibet, when you become a monk, your whole life you should stay a monk, okay? Since your parents leave you here since you were eight years old or nine years old until you die, you will stay inside the monastery. The monastery is the place for learning, but that education is never enough time for one life. The Tibetan people will not believe in one life, we believe in many lives, which means our spirits will never die. Tibetan Buddhism believe in incarnations. In modern school we go to learn and then you get a job and you can leave, like that. But here, you learn not just for one life, but your whole spirit, every life until you go for nirvana. You work and you can take the wisdom for next life, but if you bought a big house, bank account millions, but you’re dead you cannot take it right? Leave it, you can go alone. As you come as alone and as you die as alone. Nobody helps you or go together with you so why you have women? Why you have children? They can’t help you so who can help you? Nirvana, the monastery, scriptures that you can learn, enlighten yourself. Working from yourself, ignorance, desire, hatred, those three things.”  
I thought about the obsession with the beginning and the ending. To draw a line, you need two points but you also need all the points in the middle that make up the line. Everyone dies, but in order to die you have to live first. To live only with the end goal in mind is like attending a class only for the grade, not the joy and pain of learning. Nobody can help you when you die, but many people help you when you live. I have no doubt that we are more than our mortality. Maybe I enjoy the middle points too much?

To nullify the living experience because you can't have life pleasures after death is like saying if you have nothing, you lose nothing. I call this misplacing anger. The greatest example is the fox calling the grapes sour because the grapes were hard to reach. It would do the fox better if it admitted the difficulty in reaching the grapes than refuting the goal. Surely we need to assess our goal, but most goals are noble. I am positively convinced that if we focus on the process, the result will take care of itself. This led to a question: are life-denouncing religions all but a rationalization? My ignorance of Buddhism and all other religions allowed these thoughts. Had I studied scriptures in a monastery this whole life and the next life, I would never have been able to think so ignorantly, so desirously, so honestly.

While troubled with these thoughts, I was walking in a narrow path between white, two-storey buildings. It was like a travelling channel with a narrator walking you through a passage of time and culture. We entered a worshipping hall. It was a cavernous, high-ceiling room with white walls and red columns. We were shown Buddhist statues and a painting of the Winter Palace made from yak butter. The dark hall was barely lit by large wax lamps with a thick smell. The melted wax from the lamps followed a pipe down big buckets. When we saw a Tibetan woman pouring a wax bucket into her flask, Lekhsey explained:
“Tibetan people offer yak butter to monasteries to fuel lamps okay? We also take melted butter from the lamps to home. You can see some people, they carry a flask to take the butter okay? Yak butter is believed to bring merit and enlightenment.” 

Next, we visited a kitchen the same height as the worshipping hall. Made up of grey bricks and stones, the kitchen had some bathtub-sized pots and pans. A laywoman gave us a brown, dense flour that tasted blend and nutty. This was a roasted barley flour cake called Tsampa, the main staple of the monks. We visited two more worshipping areas with many statues, where Lekhsey warned: 
“Please do not block the way yeah? Tibetan pilgrims can push you aside. They are not hostile but they focus on their worship. In summer, Tibetan people stay in their village farming. The weather is also warmer, so this place is flocked with tourists. In winter, there is no farming so Tibetan people in the countryside visit to the capitol. You are lucky to see real Tibetans, not tourists.”
 
Taking in a breath, Lekhsey walked us out of the narrow path, back to the bare ground we began.
There, he said:
“You see that big rock behind you? The painting hanging there is Je Tsongkhapa, the first teacher.
In Tibetan festival, people flock to that rock to pay tributes. They line up eight, nine hours before the ceremony. You can go to take pictures but please be back in twenty minutes, okay? No one can reach to the top and back in twenty minutes so just go up to the middle.”

The professor and WiseMan stayed back. The Russian, the Japanese man in black beanie hat, the French guy and I formed a climbing entourage. My headache persisted, but I damped it by striking up a conversation with the French guy. He told me everything with a burst of excitement. He was twenty, (no wonder, I was a ball of energy at twenty) he was studying biochemistry in Taiwan. He struggled with Chinese for a few months, and seemed all but gave up on mastering it. On the climb, I maintained a good speed, but had difficulties breathing and thinking straight. My lung was not used to this diluted air. The headache aggravated. 
When we looked up, the Russian man was ahead by a landslide. I was a little mad to be so far behind, even though I was in second place. As the only girl, I felt a need to prove my toughness. Looking back, it wasn’t being a girl or the headache. The Russian was simply a league of his own. 

Unlike Lekhsey’s caveat, A. had reached the top while we were still in the middle. From the highest cliff of the stone wall, his profile was carved into Drepung’s landscape like a marker of where the mountain ended and the sky began. 
In the high sun, his hair shone. 
In the headwind, his shoulders unwavered. 
In the vast nature, his emanation inspired a heavenly warrior. 
Somehow, I imagined him to be Gregori in Sholokhov’s Tikhyi Don. 
“A., time to go back!” The French kid screamed from the top of his lungs.
The heavenly warrior turned around asudden, his eyes pierced through mine. I felt like Sholokhov’s Aksinia dying in Gregori’s arms, exchanging the grandeur of life in one last look. Like Gregori dropping his weapons off the tikhyi Don, A. dropped his arms close to his body, motionless. That second, I felt as though the heavenly warrior spirit had left the A.’s sentient flesh. As A. walked down, he forever cemented in me the name “WhitePrince”. 


