The day has come: the twenty-seventh of December. It is the last Friday, and the last working day of the year twenty nineteen. Waking up is my first success. All the bags are packed. Shoes are placed parallel to the bed. I sit up, put on the working outfit, and smile.
The sun has warmed up some morning air for my pleasant beginning. I take a sip of the air, the way I have taken deep breaths through a run. This time is no runthrough, this time is real. All the runs, all the duolingo lessons, all the cold showers, all planning, have come down to today.  I need to say my goodbyes to the current world. I place my backpack, boots and “Tintin in Tibet '' on the mat floor, take a picture, and post on Facebook. My post says I am leaving this town for a while on an adventure. I send my thank you to my best friend, for reminding me of who I want to be. No one knew about my trip. Now everyone knows.  

The last working day of the year goes by quietly. I take the afternoon off to catch the four thirty flight. At twelve thirty five, right after lunch, I rush into the restroom to change into my readily set out explorer outfits. Everything I need to quickly draw out is put in the smaller backpack, while the big chunk is placed in the big red backpack. Like a snail, I carried the giant twenty kilogram red backpack slowly into the elevator downstairs. Like a grasshopper, I hop on the bus to the nearest station with the Asakusa line, to catch the (cheapest) airport express. From the station, a one-thousand-three hundred yen ticket gets me to the airport at three. This airport, called Narita, is over sixty kilometers away from the city center. 
At the airport, like a millennial, I take out my phone and check social networks. Due to flight delay, after passing all customary and luggage checks, I am still two hours early.

The Korean guests nearby cause a scene in good Japanese. They would miss their next flight with this delay. The Japanese staff split honorifics into the foreign guests to paralyze them. They might as well knee down and let the guests climb on their shoulders. The Korean guests reply in polite Japanese, but their voices offer no mercy. In the end, the guests sit down and accept defeat. Meanwhile, I stand up to get some ice cream. The machine is broken. No one apologizes for my ice cream intake delay.

At five thirty or so, we start getting on the plane and are served dinner right away. Food was good. Korean Air is famous for their food. On the Narita - Incheon flight, I squeezed in a very quality sixty minute viewing of a National Geographic documentary called "Hostile Planet - Mountains' '. The documentary is about the harsh life on high altitudes. Sounded about right. In the very first minute, my eyes beamed up with tears. The documentary opens with a scene of a strikingly straight mountain cliff, from which a family of barnacle geese reside. The three barnacle goose chicks are yet to fly, and their parents cannot carry them down. The three must get off the cliff by themselves. And so, they face the challenge of jumping off the cliffs and surviving. As the first scene is only an intro, I only get to see the first chick. S/he throws himself off the height, crashes into the rock, and life leaves that tiny, newly-lived body. The scene renders me to tears with bare footage. Sixty minutes go on like sixty seconds of death and life. I find out that of the two other barnacle goose chicks, the second one also crashes to the rock in a more horrific and physically incomplete flight, and the third one rolled on several hard rocks before landing on land. The father goose is down there, throwing himself out like a net to catch the on-rolling chick, protecting it from rolling further, and rolling into hungry mouths. Mother goose flies down to reunite with father goose and goose chick. Tous ensemble, the family goose-walk to nearby water and food. Mountain life is hard with all the living conditions. I hold my breath at the chimpanzee's fights, I cheer for the mountain goats. I got into documentaries due to my ex's highbrow interests, which turns out extremely rewarding, both for entertainment, and life saving this time. 
 
Around eight in the evening, Incheon embraces me with its finest airport. I have been to this airport several times, and it remains the sleekest one, the paragon of a self-sustaining generic city. Everything in this airport can accommodate basic needs, from headache medicines to nose jobs. Local culture is stripped off the generic city, and everyone feels like they are at their own country’s international airport. One unique feature of Incheon airport is a circulation of the new faces of Korean cosmetics. In my time, Lee Minho or Nick Khun’s cardboard standees were everywhere. Won Bin was my all time favourite, but I am old school. Let the young male faces dominate white skin creams and red lipsticks.
 
Since my flight to Xi'an is scheduled at nine the next morning, I can rent a sleeping cocoon. Driven by my frugal and high risk characteristics, I will sleep on a bench. My mother is absolutely horrified by my airport homelessness. She has a lot more coming: her daughter will soon go to Tibet alone. I have to ease her into my shenanigans with the airport homelessness first; she is to take my crazy decisions one at a time.
Of course I get lost on my way to the boarding gate, where I shall spend the night. Of course there is a handsome Korean airport staff walking me back. Of course I am not flirting with him, because he is on duty, and I am a proper lady. Soon, the right boarding gate emerges, with its benches. There are four boarding gates located like the round part of a key, so I can see with clarity the other three gates. The airport at night is a bit cold and quiet, but not humanless. I see a monk on the far end of an opposite gate. The light is on, wifi is fast. I call mom for more than thirty minutes so she can see my comfortable bedding arrangement. My only fear, then, is losing the down jacket borrowed from my colleague, and my newly-bought old trekking shoes. Following mom’s advice, I tie my shoes to my down jacket, and put the down jacket on as a blanket. The night drifts away.

In the morning, I woke up at four, and then six. I walked to a decent restaurant and ordered a fancy spanzie bowl of noodle, paid with Korean won notes. I was a global citizen: in possession of currencies of four countries, bedding at the airport bench, owning adapters and converters for all sorts of electrical outlets. As I was musing over my new citizenship, a couple speaking in familiar sounds caught my attention. They were trying to make themselves understood at the noodle counter, but their English was not adequate. The wife turned to her husband and asked: “Ủa, nói gì vậy hổng hiểu. Đưa đô mà cậu ý không lấy là sao ta? What did he say? Why did he not accept our dollar bills?” 
They were Vietnamese. In case you were not informed, I am Vietnamese, by blood and by nationality. I walked over and told them: 
“Hai bác ạ, anh ý bảo là chỉ nhận tiền Hàn thôi ạ. Excuse me mister and missus, he said they only accept Korean won.” 
My Vietnamese was polite if you had a chance to know me in Vietnamese. I helped explain back and forth, and the couple managed to pay with a credit card. They were Vietnamese American going back to Vietnam to visit some relatives. The wife asked me how much the noodles were in dollars, and we exchanged brief pleasantries.
“So, you are studying and working in Japan? Good, good, and you marry a Japanese man and take Japanese nationality, that is very good.” The wife draws out a plan for my life.
That is a particularly Vietnamese thing to say, no matter what nationality one takes. I am actually proud to be a Vietnamese national, so I never comment further on her plan for me. Did they, at twenty four, plan out their life to send their children to the U.S., so they can take American citizenships? Or even better, to go to the U.S. to bear children. I am a planner, but nothing of that sort. I can only plan ahead for my dinner and my Tibet trip, not someone else’s lifetime. I may sound bitter about the couple, but I am probably not. It is just my style to hold on to these small talks, as they are pins to remember locations and activities during a journey. I hope you are not sensitive assholes triggered by a contemplation on immigrant talks.

After breakfast, I moved to the airport washroom to collect toilet paper. As I had read, toilet paper was non-existent in public China. So I rolled, and rolled, and rolled, without the rock, nine forty-centimetre sheets of toilet paper, and stuffed them in my glove. After I finished the paper work, I charged my two phones some more, and sent out the last facebook messages. The sun had risen from the east, and my plane had arrived thirty minutes late again. 

I practiced my Chinese phrases once more, got on the plane, excited about the upcoming journey. I watched another great documentary, "Spy in the snow” by BBC, and two other less intriguing films. The food was decent. My flight arrived at twelve thirty noon. I am now on China's soil. China, the kingdom in the Middle.
