Within a moment of flailing hair, Hiro’s torso twisted like a baseball pitcher. He gripped my hand and dashed away. A. already whirled his frame but stood still for a second, before catenating us by the heel. He was shielding for me and Hiro! More keen wind fissures chased us, vengefully and wrathfully. My heart raced in elevation like a hundred of wings soaring to the sky. The numbing cold of Tibet weakened my muscles, and the spurt only caused further raptures. I was pulled away without a direction, a memory, a rationale. 
We only stopped in the middle of the square in front of the Potala. I took to my knee, grasping for air. What just happened? I looked up at A. and Hiro. They too were jolted out of their mind. Clearly, it wasn’t an usual traveling experience. What was to be done? Should we go report to a police officer? 
“What do we do now?” Hiro asked.
“I don’t know. Go to the police?” Said A.. They turned to me, expectantly.
“I don’t think we should. They won’t like foreigners wandering around without a tour guide at this hour. Lekhsey and other people in our group may get into trouble.” I weighed in on the situation. The other two nodded. “Let’s go back to the hotel, stay in crowded places. We can ask the hotel staffs for help.”
My companions formed with me a non-verbal unison, and back to the hotel we headed. Our route only included brightly lit, patrolled and pedestrianized streets. At darker parts of town, my companions tried to slow down to match my pace, so they could sandwich me, Hiro on my right and A. on my left. 

At eleven thirty Beijing’s time, we finally reached the half lit reception front. Several staffs were in attendance, and a small group of tourists were chatting on one corner. It was unrealistically warm inside. We collapsed into the nearest big sofa at the lobby. In a few minutes, our body adapted to the heat, and our strength returned. Yet, we still laid numbly like three pieces of frozen meat defreezing. This must have been quite a scene, for a Tibetan woman came asking in a soft voice:
“Can I help you? Did something happen?” 
She must either be an accommodating hotel staff, or a curious one. 
“We were attacked.” I said half mockingly.
“Attacked?” The woman gasped. 
“Yes, we were in a park near Potala, and some needles, some long sticks…” A. explained.
“Quills.” I rephrased.
“Quills, yes, some long quills shot at us.” A. finished the recap. 
“Must be porcupines.” Said the woman, confidently.
“Porcupines?” We three cried in one breath.
“Yes, porcupines attack people at night sometimes. They shoot quills through lake.”
“There are porcupines in Tibet?” I asked dumbfoundedly.
“Yes yes, there are. Poor goose.” 
This was good news. We would have embarrassed ourselves had we come to the police. 
“Thank you! We are fine.” The White Prince told the woman, and she disappeared in a corridor. Another few minutes went by, and the Beijing clock at the front desk stroke sharp twelve. It was not midnight darkness yet in Lhasa, but we had a tour to join tomorrow. 
“We will have breakfast at seven thirty, me and A. Let’s have breakfast together.” Hiro proposed. I took up the offer, and excused myself to head back to my room. The two men nodded, also stood up and followed me. I got on the elevator, and they joined me. I pressed the forth floor, and waited for them to press on their floor. No one lifted a finger. 
“You are also on the fourth?” I couldn’t help it.
“Yes, 406. We are roommates.”
“You are kidding? I am 405.” I chuckled. “We are neighbors.” 
“That’s good.” A. said with a smile. 

Back to my room, I did my best to quiet my entrance, to no purpose. The Wise Man had already been awake, tucked comfortably in his blanket and wool hat.
“Nice coat.” He remarked in a fatherly tone at daughters’ fashion. 
“It is pretty, right? I got it in the market for a hundred eighty yuans.”
The first thing that came out of his mouth was:
“Too expensive. You should have bargained for eighty, and paid a hundred.” 
I should have, I supposed. He left to clean up some clothes on the sofa, and I went to take a shower.
Only as I opened the red backpack to grab the prepared sleeping outfits, that I realized one thing. It had been more than forty hours since my last decent wash that frozen morning in Xian, when I parted with Seven. My body must be grimed with gunk and my hair veneered with grease. The idea of shower was rejoicing, until I entered the curtained glass bathroom. It wasn’t that I worried about S.; he felt decent. I would shower in cold water, was the harsh reality of life in Tibet. The hotel might look modern, but hot running water wasn’t about looks, as I had come to expect. Merely as wishful thinking, I turned on the hot water tap, bracing myself for the true test of the four months of cold shower training. The truth was, I was not as brave as I made it out to be, so I stood aside from the shower head, waiting to put my fingers in the ice first. The water came out at once from the shower head, and I poked my finger through the current. Oh grandmother of onsen and ofuro, that was the hottest stream in all the lands. The faraway Lhasa had to be the best hot water provider in the world. It was ridiculous how quick, hot and stable the water ran. 
Under the right temperature, I scrubbed the bust, the arm and knee pits, the sides of the toes. I massaged my scalp and rinse my hair thoroughly. I applied body soap, and shampoo, and even washed my face with their face soap. Every reachable part was tended to with attentiveness, all while the hot water steadily ran. What a joke I made of myself for those four months of biting cold. After forty minutes of intense cleansing, I could finally dry my hair and head to bed. There was a Vietnamese belief that you would get a headache and die if you wash your hair at night without drying it carefully. However, as I reached for the hair dryer on the perfectly dry cabinet, I suddenly recalled hair driers that electrocuted, fatally. In the end, I decided to skip the hair dryer and instead, wrap the hair in a towel and roll it until half dry. My Vietnamese ancestors would not let me die if my hair was semi dry. 

Coming out of the bathroom, I requested the Wise Man’s acceptance to make a call. He was stunted.
“Please, just call as you want. I also called my family earlier.”
“I did not want to trouble you though. We still share a room, after all.”
“No worries, you don’t have to be so polite.” He was almost laughing from his bed, half a meter away from mine. So, from my bed, I called my mother through Skype. 
“Ôi sao lại có ông nào đấy? Oh dear, why is there a man?” Cried mom.
“Bạn cùng phòng con ạ. My roommate, mother.” 
“Ối giời ạ. Oh the higher gods. Please change to a single suite.”
Mom let out an embarrassing faux laughter, dragging dad into the screen. Dad, sitting right next to her, said nothing. He threw in a look, and returned to his reading. 
“No worries, mom, he seems nice.”
I showed them my new coat. Then it really was time to sleep. As the light went out, I took to bed in semi wet hair, not knowing it was a seed of problems of the days to come. On the first night in Lhasa, I felt asleep like I always did in my Tokyo dorm room, mountains and oceans and hot water plumbing systems away. 

Youtube






Hello hello. Someone is excited about my story tonight.     Right, won’t keep you waiting. 
As you remember last time, 
I arrived in Lhasa, checked in my room, and met my male roommate, The Wise Man. 
Now, I will tell you about my first night in Lhasa. 
At five thirty in the evening, minus seven degree Celsius 
and three thousand six hundred meters above sea level, 
I was out of the hotel 
and alone in the Forbidden City, 
heading out for my solo dinner. Right opposite the hotel stood a market, 
so I found myself a little restaurant. 
It was cozy and comfortable. 
No one in the restaurant spoke English. 
I tried to use my Chinese translation app to order, 
but the staff insisted
 to summon an English speaking server
 from another restaurant 
just to take my order properly. 
They seemed genuinely determined 
to provide me with the best service, 
and the best Tibetan experience. 
Once the English speaking staff arrived, 
she recommended way too many dishes. 
I might dress like a giant penguin, 
but my stomach was one of a baby penguin. 
So, for dinner, 
I had rice, 
Yak meat, 
boilt potato with some broth. 
There was also a separate bowl
 of chicken broth with onion, 
and a cup of the famous butter tea. 
The food was warm. 
Yak meat was drier and more chewy 
than the normal beef, 
so it was chopped into strips 
and seasoned like Vietnamese pho, 
with star anise and cardamom.

No comment on the food. 

Twenty minutes later, 
I bowed good bye and left the restaurant. 

It was time for the real fun: 
shopping! 

Lhasa is geographically GMT+6,
But all of China uses Beijing time +8. 
As a result, 
at six thirty pm, 
the winter sky was murky rather than dark.
 
I walked around, 
tried on some Tibetan jackets and coats, 
made a few bids to test the water. 
Foreigners did not seem ripped off. 
At one corner,
I found a gem of a shop.

The place was like a tiny tunnel, 
but the designs 
were a most selective bunch. 
I asked to try on the baby blue coat, 
and the brown long dress, 
and the white furry jacket. 
All were pretty, 
but that was mostly because, 
I looked absolutely fabulous 
in everything :) 

On the highest hanging rod, 
I spotted a beautiful thing.

I don’t want to spoil it for ya, 
but I eventually bought that coat, 
and it is here. 


On the rack, it was a thick, mid waist coat 
in moss green 

with yellow and white patterns 
of the sun, I think.

Black fur on the neck.
 
The coat was tied up 
by an elegant ribbon. 

“Can I try that one?”. 

The store keepers both gave me a laugh. 

“Madame, this, for men.”

“Can I just try it on?”

“It is heavy. You want?”

“Yes, please.” 

The taller shopkeeper maneuvered his pole
 to lift the green coat off the hanging rod. 

It was indeed heavy, 

so the shopkeeper helped me put it on, 




and tied the sides properly. 

The men coat hugged me

 like the embrace of a true man: 
tight, warm and too firm. 


In seeing my reflection, 
I thought of my ex boyfriend. 
He always adored my fashion.
It was strange, 
but I knew exactly what he would say 
had he been there by my side: 

“Look at you, little tornado. 

What a charming fur ball.” 

And then,  
he would squeeze me in 
until my body hurted, 
in a stroke of cute-aggression. 


Turned to the shopkeepers, 
who too seemed dumbfounded at my radiance, 
I made my bid. 
A hundred eighty yuans. 

The shopkeepers never peeped another word
 about the coat being for men.
They just took it off of me 
and tried to rolled it in a bag. 

“No need, can I just wear it?” 

I put my colleague’s down jacket in the bag instead, 
and walked out of the store 
with the new coat. 

The two shopkeeper’s eyes fixated on me 
even as I left. 
They too must be mesmerized.

They were not the only sets of eyes I captured that night. 
The longer I walked, 
the more local heads turned. 
I was hopping and twirling on the stoned walk, 

the new coat uplifting 
despite its weight. 
At a shop, the song “Trap” by Henry was played, 
and the kids were passing a soccer ball. 
I stopped to dance along with the music, 
and danced my way back to the hotel.

At nine pm, I reached the hotel lobby. 
At the reception desk, I asked:
“Do you have laundry service?”
“Yes, but only  until 6. 
Also, we cannot take your laundry 
the day before your checkout. 
Which group are you in? 
Who is your tour guide?”

“...Lek..”
“Lekhsey. 
I see, you are the Japanese girl.” 
Said the receptionist, as if she had studied every single guest of Lekhsey’s group.

“Actually,...”
Before I could fix her, a voice rose behind me:
“すみません、日本人ですか。”
Two men were standing nearby, 
One apparently Japanese,
and the other, a westerner.
 
“いいえ、ベトナム人です。”
“ベトナム？...She is from Vietnam.” 
The Japanese man told the western man in English. 

The Japanese was around thirty five, 
one meter sixty five, 
dressed neatly in dark blue 
with a black beanie hat. 
He had epicanthic folded, ebony eyes, 
thin lips 
and calming, balanced features. 

The westerner was about one meter eighty, 
wide frame but not bulky. 
Rather, he had a compact build, 
in a grey nylon set of
jacket and ridge pants. 
I did not know what his face looked like. 
Often times, I stole a quick glance first. 
If the man had a handsome profile, 
I would be too shy to look above the chin. 
In any case, he might have lighter eyes and blond hair. 

“Hello, are you from Lekhsey’s group? 
We are too. I am Hiro.” 
Said the Japanese man, 
in a much more casual voice than his earlier Japanese tone.

“I am A., from Russia.” 
the western man answered with a warm smile. 
That smile 
somehow 
smoothened all the rough edges 
in his faint Russian accent. 
I liked the man instantaneously. 

“Did you buy the coat here?” 
A. asked. 
Both men looked amused.
“Yes, I was just walking around the market. 
I just arrived this evening.”
“We came at noon. 
You have dinner yet?” 
Hiro asked.
“Yes, I did. And you?”
“We also had dinner with two other people in our group. 
We wanted to walk to Potala, 
but they couldn’t join.” 
A. explained. 
Now, I was intrigued.
“You can walk there?” 
“Yes, only three kilometers. 
Do you want to join?” 
A. offered, his baby-blue eyes sparkled.

And, Just like that, 
we became travel mates. 

During the three kilometer walk 
in the minus ten degrees, 
I learnt that Hiro worked 
in food manufacturing, 
and had lived in Vietnam for a few years. 

A. was a software engineer for banking systems, 
and had never travelled outside Europe until this trip.

We continued our walk on the big road, occasionally checking the phone map. The men’s google maps failed us miserably, so we relied instead on my phone’s baidu map.
Ichiro used to play rugby in college, and participated in the Tokyo Marathon ten years earlier. The White Prince played soccer, basketball, surfing, as well as a multitude of sports. I only ran, if it counted.  

Both men loved traveling. 
They talked about their trips passionately and unfilteredly. 
Both were surprised to find out 
this was my first solo trip. 
 
On our way, 
I noticed that 
young locals all dressed more fashionably than us, 
and drove spotless cars. 
All the signboards had Chinese actors and actresses’ faces. 
The roads were blasted with big stores and glass windows. 
It was just as modern as Xian. 

At nine forty five, 
we had reached the square 
in front of the well lit Potala palace. 
The square at night 
looked majestic and miraculous. 
It was about the size of a stadium, 
completely open, 
with a statue of Mao 
casting shadow over it. 

People also strolled in the cold 
like us. 

We took a selfie at the front of Potala, 
and traversed 
to the back.
 
The night walk 
took an unexpected turn 

- we found a palatial park 
behind the Winter Palace. 

In the middle was a large lake, 
where hundreds of geese swam 
without a care for the cold. 

Along our ways, we met several bridges, 
but decided to walk a full round of the lake 
instead of shortcutting to the other side. 

Lights on bridge fences glittered the dark water.
 
We walked for twenty minutes 
and found a perfect spot 
where our eyes could capture it all. 

The lake became a dark canvas 
unto which 
the Potala painted its alter ego. 
Potala’s reflection in the dark water 
looked like a lost palace in the underworld. 

Also on that dark canvas, geese loafed away. 
We were gazing them fondly, 
when, 
without a warning, 
from the dark water, 
the hundreds of geese 
took off. 

They rose resplendently 
into the air, 
their ivory plumage catching red, 
green, yellow, purple lights 
on the bridge fences 
to weave an ever rising, 
ever flowing rainbow veil. 
It was like a moving banquet 
of colors and charm. 

The geese flew away in such numbers 
that they could lift the water 
and the underworld Potala 
with them to the sky. 

Their ascend 
stupefied the most eloquent man, 
refreshed 
the most experienced eyes 
and averaged 
the most lavish lifestyle. 

That 
was the kind of sight
 one traveled the world for. 

In that second of marvelous stillness, 
I heard the grasses 
fissured and the wind 
split. 

From the ascending veil of wildfowls, 
a pair of white wings 
dunked back 
into the water. 
The animal plunged down like a smithereen of the moon 
cracking and dropping 
on the dark water. 
The splashing sound 
when it touched the lake 
was alarming. 
Its body 
was pricked with a strange quill. 

The wind fissured more vengously, 
and another quill dashed towards us. 

It dawned on me 
that the first quill 
wasn’t meant for the wildfowls. 
It was       for us. 

Shot at the same moment the geese ascended the water, 
that quill accidentally hit the poor goose. 

That goose shielded us 
from the first attack. 

Now, 
whatever was on the other side of the lake 
was bull eyeing us 
for its 
dart game.  

And that was the end of tonight. 

Oh come on, 

you know I would stop here, 
so you come back for more. 
Do come back for more, 
it is only gonna get more exciting. Promise.
 
Alright, 
good night, 
see you soon.
