At five thirty in the evening, minus seven degree Celsius and three thousand six hundred meters above sea level, I was out of the hotel and alone in the Forbidden City, heading out for my solo dinner. 
Right opposite the hotel stood a market, so I found myself a little restaurant. It was cozy and comfortable. I used the Baidu translation to order in Chinese, but the waitress would not have it. An English speaking server from another restaurant was summoned to take my order properly. They seemed genuinely embarrassed for not being able to provide me with the best service. 

Once the English speaking staff arrived, she recommended too many dishes. I might dress like a giant penguin, but my stomach was that of a baby penguin. When all my dishes have come out, every staff in the restaurant looked pleased. Dinner included rice, Yak meat, potato with some broth. There was also a separate bowl of chicken broth with onion, and a cup of the famous butter tea. The food was warm. Yak meat was drier and more chewy than the normal beef, so it was chopped into strips and seasoned like Vietnamese pho, with star anise and cardamom. Twenty minutes later, I bowed goodbye and left the restaurant. It was time for the real fun: shopping! 

At six thirty UTC+8, the actual +6 sky was murky rather than dark. Lhasa clocks may observe Beijing time, but Lhasa’s sky remains intact. I walked around several shops, made a few bids only to realize the price was unanimous. At one corner shop, two store keepers were not galloping at my foreignness. Due to its tunnel-like, modest size, the designs were a most selective bunch. I asked to try on the baby blue thick coat, and then the warm brown long dress, and the white furry jacket. Each had its own perks, but mostly because I was cursed with looking absolutely fabulous in everything :) Of all the designs, I had my eyes on one: a thick, mid waist coat in moss green with yellow and white sun or flower like patterns, black fur on the neck and sleeve lines. The coat was tied up by an elegant ribbon. When I first asked to try this design on, the store keepers laughed. 
“Madame, this, for men.”
“Can I just try it on?”
“It is heavy. You want?”
“Yes, please.” 
The taller store keeper maneuvered his pole to lift the green coat off the hanging rod. It was indeed heavy, so the store keeper helped me put it on and tied the sides properly. The man's coat hugged me like the embrace of a true man: tight, warm and too firm. In seeing my reflection, my ex would say: “Look at you, little tornado. What a charming fur ball.” And he would squeeze me in till my body hurted, in a stroke of cute-aggression. 
Turning to the store keepers, who too seemed dumbfounded at my radiance bearing, I made my bid. A hundred eighty yuan. The shopkeepers never peeped a word about it being for men, just took it off for me and rolled it in a bag. 
“No need, can I just wear it?” I put my colleague’s down jacket in the bag instead, and walked out of the store with the new coat. The two men’s eyes fixated on me even as I left. They too must be mesmerized with my cute take on their design.
They were not the only sets of eyes I captured that night. The longer I walked, the more locals turned around. I was hopping and twirling on the stoned walk, the new coat uplifting despite its weight. At a shop, “Trap” by Henry was played, and the kids were passing a soccer ball. I stopped to dance along with the music, and danced my way back to the hotel.

The clock at the hotel lobby told seven thirty when I came to the reception desk:
“Do you have laundry service?”
“Yes, but today’s laundry time was over. And we cannot take your laundry the day before your checkout. Who is your tour guide?”
“...Lek..”
“Lekhsey. I see, you are the Japanese girl.”
“Actually,...”
Before I could fix her, a voice rose behind me:
“すみません、日本人ですか。”
Two men were standing nearby, a Japanese man and a western man. 
“いいえ、ベトナム人です。”
“ベトナム？...She is from Vietnam.” The Japanese man turned to the western man and said in English. The Japanese was around thirty five, one meter sixty five, dressed neatly in dark blue with a black beanie hat. He had epicanthic folded, ebony eyes, thin lips and calming features. The westerner was about one meter eighty, wide frame but compact build, in a silver nylon jacket and Columbia-silver-ridge pants. Stealing a glance and detecting a handsome profile, I immediately avoided looking above his chin out of shyness. In any case, he might have lighter eyes and naturally blond hair, like a doll. 

“Hello, are you from Lekhsey’s group? We are too. I am Hiro.” Said the Japanese man, in a much more casual voice than his earlier Japanese tone.
“I am A. from Russia.” A. told me with a warm smile. That beam alone had refined all the rough edges on his Russian accent. I instantly liked the man. If you must ask, yes, his face was pleasing to the eyes. 
“Did you buy the coat here?” A. asked. Both men looked amused.
“Yes, I got this in the market just now. I arrived this evening.”
“We came at noon. Did you have dinner yet?” Hiro asked.
“Yes, I did. And you?”
“We just had dinner with two other people in our group. We wanted to walk to Potala, but they couldn’t join.” Explained A.. 
“You can walk there?” 
“Yes, only three kilometers. Do you want to join?” A. offered, his baby-blue eyes sparkled.
Just like that, we became travel mates. 
During the three kilometer walk in the minus ten degree, I learnt that Hiro worked in food manufacturing and had lived in Vietnam for a few years. A. was a software engineer for banking systems and had never travelled outside Europe or EuroAsia. Both men loved traveling. They talked about their trips passionately and unfiltered. 
“This is the first time you travel alone?” They looked surprised.
“How long have you been in Tokyo?” Hiro asked.
“Since 2018, so two years? I wanted to do the Tokyo marathon but I wasn’t picked.” I told him.
“I did Tokyo marathon ten years ago.” Hiro said. 
“So you run?” I was excited to find something in common.
“Not anymore.”
“What sports do you play?”
“Nothing. I used to play rugby and baseball in university.” Hiro replied. We turned to A..
“Football, like soccer, basketball, surfing, bouldering,...” A. struggled to list all of his physical talents.
“I only run.” I sheepishly told them.

TIbetan youth all dressed more fashionably than us and drove spotless cars. I noticed that all the signboards had Chinese actors and actresses’ faces. 

Now, we had reached the square in front of the Potala palace. The square was about the size of a stadium with a statue of Mao casting shadow over it. People also strolled in the cold like us. We took a selfie at the front of Potala, and traversed to the back.
 
The night walk took an unexpected turn - we found a palatial park behind the Winter Palace. In the middle was a large lake, where hundreds of geese swam without a care for the cold. Along our ways, we met several bridges, but decided to walk a full round of the lake instead of taking the shortcut to the other side. Lights on bridge fences glittered the dark water. After walking for twenty minutes, we found a perfect spot to capture the following scene: The lake became a dark canvas unto which the Potala painted its alter ego. The Winter Palace’s reflection looked like a lost palace in the underworld. 

On that dark canvas, geese loafed away. We were gazing at them fondly, when, without a warning, the hundreds of geese took off from the dark water. Resplendently they rose into the air, their ivory plumage catching red, green, yellow lights on the bridge fences, weaving an ever rising, ever flowing rainbow veil. It was like a moving banquet of colors and charm. The geese flew away in such numbers that they could lift the water and the underworld Potala with them to the sky. Their ascend stunned the most eloquent speaker, refreshed the most experienced eyes and averaged the most lavish lifestyle. That was the kind of view one traveled the world for. 

In that second of marvelous stillness, I heard the grasses fissure and the wind split. 
“Slash!”
From the ascending veil of wildfowls, a pair of white wings plunged down like a smithereen of the moon dropping on the dark water. Its body was pricked with a quill. 
The wind fissured more vengiously. A quill dashed towards us. The first quill wasn’t meant for the wildfowls! It was for us! Now, we had become the bullseye of a dart game.  

YouTube






Hello hello. Someone is excited about my story tonight.     Right, won’t keep you waiting. 
As you remember last time, 
I arrived in Lhasa, checked in my room, and met my male roommate, The Wise Man. 
Now, I will tell you about my first night in Lhasa. 
At five thirty in the evening, minus seven degree Celsius 
and three thousand six hundred meters above sea level, 
I am heading out for my solo dinner. At a little cozy restaurant right opposite the hotel, I manage to order rice, Yak meat, boilt potato with some broth, chicken broth with onion, and a cup of the famous butter tea. 
Yak meat is drier and more chewy than the normal beef, chopped into strips and seasoned like Vietnamese pho, with star anise and cardamom.
After Twenty minutes, I bow to the restaurant staff 
and head out for the market. Time for the real fun: shopping! 

Lhasa is geographically GMT+6,
But all of China uses Beijing time +8. 
As a result, 
at six thirty pm, 
the winter sky is murky rather than dark.
 
I walk around, try on some Tibetan jackets and coats, make a few bids. At one corner, I find a shop a bit different from the others.
The place is like a tiny tunnel, unlike other large shops, but they include the most selective designs. The two male shopkeepers seem quiet and observant. 
I try on the baby blue coat, the brown long dress and the white furry jacket. All look pretty. On the highest hanging rod, upon further scanning, I spot it, a thick, mid waist coat in moss green with yellow and white patterns of the sun. Black fur on the neck. The coat is tied up by an elegant ribbon. 
“Can I try that one?”. 
The storekeepers both give me a laugh. 
“Madame, this, for men.”
“Can I just try it on?”
“It is heavy. You want?”
“Yes, please.” 

The taller shopkeeper maneuvers his pole to lift the green coat off the hanging rod. It is indeed heavy, so the shopkeeper helped me put it on, 
and tied the sides properly. The men coat hugs me like the embrace of a true man: tight, warm and too firm. 
In the mirror, next to my reflection, the great man looks back and says: 
“Look at you, little tornado. What a charming fur ball.” 

Turning to the shopkeepers, who too look dumbfounded at my radiance, I make my bid. A hundred eighty yuans. 

The shopkeepers take it off of me and roll it in a bag. 
“No need, can I just wear it?” 
I put my colleague’s down jacket in the bag and walk out of the store 
with the new coat. The two shopkeeper’s eyes fixate on my leaving shadow. 
At a shop, the song “Trap” by Henry is played, While kids pass a soccer ball. As I hop and twirl on the stoned walk along with the music, the new coat feels uplifting despite its weight. I dance my way back to the hotel, in the curious eyes of the locals. Never see a dancing girl before? 

At nine pm, I reach the hotel lobby. 
“Do you have laundry service?” I ask the receptionist.
“Yes, but only until 6. Also, we cannot take your laundry the day before your checkout. Which group are you in? Who is your tour guide?”
“...Lek..”
“Lekhsey. I see, you are the Japanese girl.” 
Said the receptionist, as if she had studied every single guest of Lekhsey’s group.
“Actually,...”
Before I could fix her, a voice rose behind me:
“すみません、日本人ですか。”
Two men were standing nearby, 
One apparently Japanese,
and the other, a westerner.
“いいえ、ベトナム人です。”
“ベトナム？...She is from Vietnam.” 
The Japanese man told the western man in English. 

The Japanese was around thirty five, 
one meter sixty five, 
dressed neatly in dark blue 
with a black beanie hat. 
He had epicanthic folded, ebony eyes, 
thin lips 
and calming, balanced features. 

The westerner was about one meter eighty, 
wide frame but not bulky. 
Rather, he had a compact build, 
in a grey nylon set of
jacket and ridge pants. 
I did not know what his face looked like. 
Often times, I stole a quick glance first. 
If the man had a handsome profile, 
I would be too shy to look above the chin. 
In any case, he might have lighter eyes and blond hair. 

“Hello, are you from Lekhsey’s group? 
We are too. I am Hiro.” 
Said the Japanese man, 
in a much more casual voice than his earlier Japanese tone.

“I am A., from Russia.” 
the western man answered with a warm smile. 
That smile 
somehow 
smoothened all the rough edges 
in his faint Russian accent. 
I liked the man instantaneously. 

“Did you buy the coat here?” 
A. asked. 
Both men looked amused.
“Yes, I was just walking around the market. 
I just arrived this evening.”
“We came at noon. 
You have dinner yet?” 
Hiro asked.
“Yes, I did. And you?”
“We also had dinner with two other people in our group. 
We wanted to walk to Potala, 
but they couldn’t join.” 
A. explained. 
Now, I was intrigued.
“You can walk there?” 
“Yes, only three kilometers. 
Do you want to join?” 
A. offered, his baby-blue eyes sparkled.

And, Just like that, 
we became travel mates. 

During the three kilometer walk 
in the minus ten degrees, 
I learnt that Hiro worked 
in food manufacturing, 
and had lived in Vietnam for a few years. 

A. was a software engineer for banking systems, 
and had never been outside Europe until this trip.
 
Both men loved traveling. 
They talked about their trips passionately and unfilteredly. 
Both were surprised to find out 
this was my first solo trip. 
 
On our way, 
I noticed that 
young locals all dressed more fashionably than us, 
and drove spotless cars. 
All the signboards had Chinese actors and actresses’ faces. 
The roads were blasted with big stores and glass windows. 
It was just as modern as Xian. 

At nine forty five, 
we had reached the square 
in front of the well lit Potala palace. 
The square at night 
looked majestic and miraculous. 
It was about the size of a stadium, 
completely open, 
with a statue of Mao 
casting shadow over it. 

People also strolled in the cold 
like us. 

We took a selfie at the front of Potala, 
and traversed 
to the back.
 
The night walk 
took an unexpected turn 

- we found a palatial park 
behind the Winter Palace. 

In the middle was a large lake, 
where hundreds of geese swam 
without a care for the cold. 

Along our ways, we met several bridges, 
but decided to walk a full round of the lake 
instead of shortcutting to the other side. 

Lights on bridge fences glittered the dark water.
 
We walked for twenty minutes 
and found a perfect spot 
where our eyes could capture it all. 

The lake became a dark canvas 
unto which 
the Potala painted its alter ego. 
Potala’s reflection in the dark water 
looked like a lost palace in the underworld. 

Also on that dark canvas, geese loafed away. 
We were gazing them fondly, 
when, 
without a warning, 
from the dark water, 
the hundreds of geese 
took off. 

They rose resplendently 
into the air, 
their ivory plumage catching red, 
green, yellow, purple lights 
on the bridge fences 
to weave an ever rising, 
ever flowing rainbow veil. 
It was like a moving banquet 
of colors and charm. 

The geese flew away in such numbers 
that they could lift the water 
and the underworld Potala 
with them to the sky. 

Their ascend 
stupefied the most eloquent man, 
refreshed 
the most experienced eyes 
and averaged 
the most lavish lifestyle. 

That 
was the kind of sight
 one traveled the world for. 

In that second of marvelous stillness, 
I heard the grasses 
fissured and the wind 
split. 

From the ascending veil of wildfowls, 
a pair of white wings 
dunked back 
into the water. 
The animal plunged down like a smithereen of the moon 
cracking and dropping 
on the dark water. 
The splashing sound 
when it touched the lake 
was alarming. 
Its body 
was pricked with a strange quill. 

The wind fissured more vengously, 
and another quill dashed towards us. 

It dawned on me 
that the first quill 
wasn’t meant for the wildfowls. 
It was       for us. 

Shot at the same moment the geese ascended the water, 
that quill accidentally hit the poor goose. 

That goose shielded us 
from the first attack. 

Now, 
whatever was on the other side of the lake 
was bull eyeing us 
for its 
dart game.  

And that was the end of tonight. 

Oh come on, 

you know I would stop here, 
so you come back for more. 
Do come back for more, 
it is only gonna get more exciting. Promise.
 
Alright, 
good night, 
see you soon.
