O: Good evening, companions. You are right on time, as always. Well, I should not keep you two waiting, since you have to go to bed early. Take a seat, have some water, and let us pick up where we left off. It is getting exciting. 
Last time, I told you about the train ride starting from Xian. After thirty six hours, I finally set foot in Lhasa at four forty five sharp. Minus nine degree Celsius. The station was a cavernous building with granite walls, isolated from the real Lhasa by an empty land field. This land field ended with a thin fence. There were three passes. First, at the exit, Chinese policemen and women in thick fur hats checked my Tibet permit. Next, they sent me to a bare room the size of a two-hundred-seat lecture hall. There was one counter, inside which the staff checked my Tibet permit again, scanned my visa and let me go. 
Finally, I had to walk fifty meters through the empty land field, looking as normal as can be. 40 meters. 30, 20, 10, the fence. I had officially entered Lhasa. Now what? 

A thin man in his fifties with a sun-dried face and black, modern clothes approached. He gestured to the company’s logo printed on an A4 sheet of paper. He was my pickup.  
The man put a piece of white silky cloth over my neck. 
“It is the Tibetan way of greeting.” 
He led the way to a seven-person coach fifty meters away, and got on the seat next to the driver. The coach I entered was immersed in colors and textures: carpets, hanging fabrics and braided cords of the brightest red, white, blue, yellow, green, even black. There were photos of a monk who was third in the Tibetan Buddhist clergy rank. Only thirty six, explained my pickup. The first ranked monk, the Dalai Lama, left Tibet some sixty years ago. The second monk was made Dalai Lama by the Chinese government. In any case, the whole couch resembled a mobile temple. 
As the tires rolled on the tarred road, Lhasa revealed itself as a rich, modernized town, as if I were merely on another Xian’s street. Not far from the train station stood an enormous Ferris wheel. An amusement park was built in two thousand and six, said my pickup.

He mellowly asked for my name and my origin.
“Oanh, is that common Vietnamese name, madame?”
“Not really. It means “Oriole”, the name of a bird.”
“Vietnamese tourists are rare, madame. We mainly have Europeans, Americans, Japanese, Koreans and of course, Chinese. So, why do you come to Tibet, madam?
“ I was reading this book “Seven years in Tibet”.”
The man turned a somersault of expression.
“This book, you know, is forbidden in Tibet, because this is…
“..Politics?” 
“Yes, political reasons. “Seven years in Tibet”, Austrian guy, Heinrich ..who is the first foreigner who came through Himalaya. He wrote all facts. And “Lonely planet” guidebook too.”
“Not allowed?” I exclaimed.
“Not allowed. You have?”
“Yes. I mean, I read them but I don’t have them with me.”
“If you enter from China, these books are not checked very well. But if you enter from Nepal bordow (he seems to pronounce all “er” as “ow”), the immigration custom, they chake all these books away. (again, the first “t” turns “ch”). These are all stories. I am in Tibet, so I know all the facts. That’s why I’m trust you, so I’m telling you. Actually, according to our policy, the guide is not allowed to talk about these things.”
He reversed to his mellow presence, gesturing outside the window.
“This palace is three hundred yes old.” (the “years” turns into “yes”. I say this as well.) Built with the time of the fifth Dalai Lama. Lhasa has new streets, built about twelve years ago. You will stay in the old streets area.”
As I looked out the window, a white and red, tall building emerged like a dream. It was cleanly lined by the afternoon sun, as though it would not vanish like all the other dreams. 
“The Potala. You will visit Day two”.
He heard my silence.
“Beauchiful, isn’t it?” Asked the man.
I nodded. This presence could leaven the downing sun, let alone a down heart. 
We passed several streets, where tall, industrialized buildings lined up. On sign boards, there were almost always three lines: small Mangal-like  letters on top, big Chinese letters in the middle, and English at the bottom. The sun-dried-face man explained that Tibetan writings were close to Indian letters and nothing to do with Chinese characters. Many Tibetans nowadays speak Chinese. The Tibetan university had a Tibetan studies department to research and preserve the local language, customs, history, religions. The coach passed a bridge into a narrow, packed road. Buildings turned “local”: three or four white storeys with large, squarely shaped windows painted bright yellow or palm green. The colors reminded me of Vietnamese French colonial maisons: prideful, eye-catching, bold. 

At five, we arrived at the hotel. In line with the rest of the street, it was a four-storey building in grayish walls, with a top floor in red. Each window was squarely spaced out and carved in, with brick-red decorated roof to boot. The gate was rather magnificent. Standing tall at three and a half meters, the sides are embedded with gold and dark ocean blue lotuses and leaves. The holder connecting to the roof was red, gold, green, blue, layering like paws of a dragon. The two doors were made of wood, painted in burnt brick red, with holders of gold, tied by a yellow silk ribbon. The entrance was as deep as five meters. On the blue ceiling, I saw gold clouds, and on the blue walled, religious paintings. Inside, the hotel followed a four-sided courtyard structure, with a ground in the middle to park tourist buses. 
The middle wing housed the lobby and reception front. The entrance had several layers, the normal doors and transparent PVC curtains. They were very heavy plastic sheets used to keep off the cold. There was a drink shop and a set of sofas on the right hand, a massage center and another sofa set on the left hand, each leading to a different corridor. On the far right was the reception counter, with three Tibetan ladies waiting for me. I deposited a hundred yuans, received four breakfast tickets and key four-oh-five on the facade building. Up the elevator, I went. 

When I entered a poorly lit hallway, fatigue set in. It was time for a rest in privacy, after close to more than forty hours of constant space sharing. I swiped the key card, ready to drop down on the floor in the dark. To my surprise, the space was brightly lit.

In the middle of the room, stood a brown-skinned man in his late thirties, around a meter sixty five with a beer-belly, big eyes and an astonishing face. Guess what he was standing there without? No, he was clothed but was without a clue. Stripped down to a light sweater and shorts, he confusedly stared at me - a penguin look alike with layers and layers of clothes and hat and backpacks. It was so hilariously awkward we both turned away. 

The Indian man! He did not give up either! On my very first solo trip, as a girl, picking a place like Tibet, overpacking like a pregnant penguin, and sharing a room with a strange man. Yes, sound like me. The agent did not bluff, and my lack of faith in humanity backfired. As a punishment, I was now sharing a room with a man for the next four, five days. 

“Hi, I’m Oanh. From Vietnam.”
“Hello, I’m Sakuni from India.” For the sake of the character, we will call him WiseMan.
WiseMan carried on folding his clothes, as I put down my backpacks. The room was about thirty meter square, two beds, a writing desk, a vanity desk, two chairs, a sofa, a television, a bathroom, a toilet, and a closet. The color was cream, and the wall of the bathroom was...glass. Yes, see-through glasses. There was a curtain to cover the glass, which was placed...outside the bathroom, which meant even if I closed the curtain to cover all the glasses before my shower, the roommate could open it and enjoy the show. What kind of maniac designed this bathroom? More importantly, what kind of hetero maniac shared a room with an opposite sex stranger?

After dropping my belongings, I turned to talk to the Wise Man about the tour.
“Oh, your tour guide is also Lekhsey. We will be on the same group tomorrow.”
Now that he would also be my travelling companion, I should make some friends.
“Do you want to have dinner? I am heading out.” 
My group mate shook his head.
“You go. I’m a bit tired. But you should try the blind massage. I just had it this afternoon. Bliiind massaaage, on the old quarter market side of the street!”

O: And remember to sleep soon after bedtime story! It is the end of tonight's episode, I am afraid. We will know what I did on my first night in the forbidden city, how I met my companions and what danger we got ourselves into. For now, say good night to your friend! Good night!
