Getting Portable Wifi: The portable wifi service I looked up in advance was described as located in hotel X, at the opposite of gate 322. In reality, outside gate 322 of the airport terminal were taxi pickups and empty spaces. A kilometer in the distant view, outside the airport, there stood high buildings. It dawned on me that “opposite” does not mean immediate opposite, but...leave the airport, walk at least one kilometer trying to aim at the direction of an airport gate, find a hotel that may not be there, walk in, ask for the wifi counter - opposite. This instruction applies to birds.

I thought my money was stolen.

Inside the airport taxi parking lot, at least I felt more assured about the "approved" taxis. The airport wifi booth was probably expensive, because there was no mention of it online. The staff abandoned her post to go dining and buying bubble tea, twice. Once she got back, we established decent communication with the baidu translation app. I looked hopeless without wifi, which made the staff feel bad. They opened a new sim and had me deposit 100 yuan there. In total, I need to pay 130 yuan. That's the thing, I had nothing but 100 yuan notes, no small change. Nor did they. Fortunately, a girl who was walking by offered the small change to the counter staff, and got repaid with a phone payment app. These are the prime years of phone payment apps in China. I was beyond grateful and relieved when the staff returned me 70 yuan for my 200, because now I had small changes for the taxi. These were my exact words to them  : 姐姐你们很可爱. (Sisters, you two are lovely) They were all grinning to the ears. #3goodpeople

Taxi drive: It was past 15:00 when I was armed with the internet sword. I need to get to Terra Cotta museum before the last ticket hour of 16:30. From the airport, it was an hour drive. The official airport taxi was expensive, even though I discussed the price right away and took pictures of the plate and the driver ID. After the first 10 kilometers at a 2 yuan/km rate, I had to pay 3 yuan/km. I also had to pay for the highway road fee, because the driver did not have small notes. There was the tourist myth of taxi drivers who brushed off the 20 yuan change because they had no small money to return the tourist, which became the root of my obsession for small money notes. In reality, my driver eventually owed me 3 yuan, and I was fine with it. The taxi driver was not, though. He insisted on going out and finding another taxi driver, borrowing 3 yuan and pay me back. How HE paid the other taxi driver back: that lord of the phone payment app. He wanted no fuss with me, the tourist who took a picture of his car plate and driver ID.

Museum: I reached the museum at 16:10, too late to deposit my luggage. A girl at the audio guide rental counter noticed my huge backpack, so after I rented the audio, she took me to the facility office next door. There, I could leave my stuff. She was too kind; the facility office was no place to leave visitors’ belongings. #4

Besides some foreign monks who used non-Chinese audio guides like mine, I spotted no foreign-color coded headphones. With enough time and a tour guide, the area must have been a hit, but time was not on my side, so why bother to get a human guide anyway. I walked around, sometimes eavesdropping on Japanese tour guide scripts of fellow tourists. Ahh, there were 3 other foreigners. How united I felt. I bought 4 pieces of souvenirs at an insane price, because I did not feel like bargaining (which by the way was something I enjoyed.) In an hour and a half, I dashed back to fetch my backpack, and locate the bus stop.

Bus to Hostel: People were nice, the bus was clean and the staff wore properly ironed uniforms, a scene so rare in Vietnam. On the bus, uneasiness about foreign soil penetrated my thoughts. I never made a hobby out of traveling. In fact, I love my house. I love routines, love plans, and the comfort of familiarity. Why am I doing this, putting myself in a strange land, alone. I did not miss Vietnam until my third year in Japan. Whenever I came back to Vietnam, I did not feel a complacency that home provides. I was often in a physical transition, having lived in eight places in the last seven years in Japan. I did not miss any of those places. The big question was: where is home? I felt handicapped. There was a void that no amount of literature could fill. I just pretend to be a person of some depth, but I was shallow. Nothing lasts very long inside me. Maybe graduate school was home. Maybe my ex's arms were home. I was now homeless, whether back in Japan, or on this bus in China. 

Down from the first bus, I had to change to another one. For the one thousand dollar question - where is the second bus stop - I used the lifeline of asking locals. If you are a contestant of the Who wants to be the clueless backpacker: locals could pｑoint you to nowhere, because some people did not care if you got lost. Baidu map, however, cares about you and your safety, so Regis, that's my final answer, follows Baidu map. I got to the right bus stop. My ancestors who always looked over me clapped for my correct choice. 
Onto the second bus I ran, only to be sent down in foreign sounds. Imagine being robbed of comprehension, familiarity, and body heat. Add 20 kilograms of backpacks and an empty stomach. Finally, spray Ancient tomb sweat No.5 on a tiny body. I was standing in the dark, and remembered with clarity, that call of instinct. I turned to a young girl, and ran after her, asking in the translation app: 
"Why did the bus not run?" 
She answered while walking: 
"It did not go there anymore." 
Where was there? Did not matter. My instinct told me to follow her like a child. I murmured in desperate Chinese: 
"现在什么做? What to do now?" 
She spoke into the app: 
"Take the subway." 
The girl was kind enough to search on Baidu map for the way to get to my hotel, using the metro. I followed her to the station. Mind you, at this point, I was on a race with time, because in my phone, it was already seven thirty. The bus had already stopped working, what if the metro lines did too? The trick is, seven thirty was in Korean time. It was actually six thirty in Xian, China. One extra hour could boil your blood with the sky growing dark. I had no idea how I would do 80 days around the world with my kind of time lagging. #5

Buying ticket: In China, most people use their phone app to pay, which left me, the foreign tourist, a handicap. Even the ticket machines were for credit cards. There I was, trying to shove in that slot my cash, begging it to take my money. A janitor walked to me and said something along the line of 
“Are you dumb, it says credit card only.” 
My Chinese comprehension was on fire! I blurted out my name: 
“我不能说汉语。我不是中国人. Hello, I am Not-Chinese. (Nice to meet you but not speak to you because) I cannot speak Chinese.” 
People showed their Pikachu surprised faces, because I looked more Chinese than a kungfu panda eating dumplings with chopsticks. The metaphors are running rampant. 
Thanks to outdated technology, there was a ticket machine that accepted cash. The janitor peaked at my baidu map without my permission, and helped me select the arrival station. Here, take my privacy, take that overpriced Western idea. West-East binary, Grad school lectures, freedom, all out the window. I was in full survivor mode. The janitor helped me choose the arrival station on the screen, and I put in 5 yuan. I should have received back 1 yuan, but the ticket machine was broken. Of course it has to be me, and frankly I was fine. The janitor was not fine. She called for backup, and two staff members arrived, trying to open the machine. The janitor then walked me to the ticket booth, where they checked my ticket, and gave me 1 yuan in coins. I was off to go. The janitor was an angel, waving and smiling as I passed the luggage checkpoint. #6
What checkpoint? In China, your subway luggage had to be scanned just like in airports. (later, with my fellow travelers from other countries, I learnt that this is not that uncommon). I was very legal, mind you, but the act of putting on and off 20 kilograms was not my cup of tea.

The subway is more convenient, minus the scanning and the ticketing. They work later and they did not surprise me the way buses did. Once I got off the right station, I regained my reckless confidence. With 1 km to walk to the hostel, plenty of phone battery, and 8 pm (China time, I figured) around the corner, I found dining. The food was poor. After dinner, I stacked some random Chinese snacks and walked into the mist. No hostel in sight. If bad comes to worse, I could ask a local for a phone call to the hostel. With that last hope, I kept on. 

Hostel stay: The hostel was an renovated old Chinese villa. While in good shape, darkness painted the house ghostly. Rooms were empty. In the shower, there was hot water. I should have trained myself to take cold showers, though. What if there had been nothing but icey fluid? Just the thought gave me a chill.

 I met my roommate. The Chinese girl has just finished her term exams. It was also her first solo trip. She is from Wuhan, on the east side. Her major is English, and second foreign language is Japanese, which certainly helped. The girl had great English, very kind and helpful. After I helped her put the blanket cover on, she introduced herself as Seven. And I was One. How numerically convenient. We exchanged Wechat accounts (a Chinese messaging app), the equivalent of Chinese kungfu masters' connection setup. I then asked her to help check my sim, and the girl diligently made phone calls. It was 11pm. The operator told her to call back at 7am, so Seven ensured me that she would call back the next day. We chatted, which led to me making her promise to call me when she is ever in Tokyo. I would love to put her up, help her get around the city and take her to dinners. Seven was a little puffy because I could not stay one more day in Xian. I too shared her sentiment. Imagine all the fun we could have had. Sometimes people cross your life like a beam of joy. Most times, not some times.

Morning of 29, I was on my toes not to wake Seven up. She would not have it. At 7 sharp she rolled out of her blanket and started calling. Things were handled. 

It was not a proper goodbye, so I invited her out for breakfast. Seven was not a local, but she put in efforts to take me to what looked like a good Chinese restaurant. While Seven was busy restaurant picking, I entered a conbini-like shop. To my delight, there were sausages just like the type I had as a kid. I used to collect energy stamps on those sausages, and had altogether 27 stamps. I would not get too sentimental, but those were some tough years. My family did not lack much, but we also did not have much. Fifteen years ago, the refrigerator was still a strange object in Vietnamese kitchens. One summer, my mom bought me a pack of iced sugar cane juice, a typical drink in Vietnam. She caught me keeping the ice after I drank the juice, poured new things in the iced pack before it melted, and drank it. Mom told dad, and soon after, we had a fridge. How dad afforded it with his journalist salary, I had no idea. I never felt poor because I had to reuse ice packs, if you wonder. All I said is, sugar cane juice and sausages were childhood delights. That kind of childhood bias got me to buy 8 sausages, a loaf of bread, a bottle of plum juice and some sweet rice crackers.

Seven found a restaurant near the railway station, and helped me order. As I put the 100 yuan note on the counter and motioned to pay for both, Seven said she is the host, and quickly drew out her phone payment app. She even shared with me her order, then walked me into the station. In the Chinese railroad, luggage checking was even tougher than in subways. We walked into the station counter which I thought was packed. Apparently since there are ticket machines now, no one needs another human unless they screw up, or they are foreign travelers. I was probably both.

While we were waiting at the counter, Seven talked to me about the stereotype of each region. People in the north like Xian are "generous' ', people in the south are "gentle like the Yangzi river' ', but  also "picky' '. People from the West are in autonomous regions, so they are somewhat "guarded." She had used a very complex word. I could tell at that point that Seven had a very high level of English competency, even though her speaking was not honoring her level. People in the middle part, like Wuhan, their taxi drivers are often grumpy and drive like Fast and furious. The banter stopped, tickets were delivered. Seven picked up the tickets and instructed me to fill an extra form. After that, we parted at the ticket checking gate. After I entered the waiting room, I texted her, thanking her for all the help.  
