The first tour day coincided with the last day of the solar year. We would visit two monasteries: the Drepung and the Sera. 
For the first day, I put on my new coat. The Wise Man slept in, so I came to breakfast at seven forty alone. 

The cafeteria was a hall on the ground floor of the right wing that could hold well over two hundred guests. From the entrance, I stepped into the foods area. They served breads, butter, jams, milk, porridge, pickles, eggs, some potato fried cakes. A women carried around a thermos to serve butter tea. I had a little bit of everything. The eating area of the room was filled with round tables for six. Most guests at the cafeteria were Tibetans. At the very end of the room, some foreigners gathered around two tables. I saw Akito and A. at one table with two other men. Before I could decide whether to join them, A. saw me and gave me his on-brand smile. I carried my tray to their table, and sat down next to Akito. 
“Good morning.” I chirped.
“Good morning, Oanh.” Greeted A..
“Good morning,” said the two unknown men in the table. One man was East Asian, in his late forties, dressed neatly in a milk chocolate puffer jacket with feather lined hood, topped with a grey woolen beanie hat. Feather, fancy! The second man looked like a one-eighty-meter stick in a light blue jacket, with curly dark hair and dark eyes.  also made his presence be known by a jolly greeting. 

As I said to Akito, “おはようございます。”, the East Asian man asked: 
“日本人ですか Excuse me, are you Japanese?” Asked the newly joint Japanese.
“いいえ、ベトナム人です。No, I’m Vietnamese.” 
The man continued casually:
“わたくしは、ハノイに行ったことがあります。I have been to Hanoi. ” He did not even question where I learnt his mother tongue, as if Vietnamese people normally spoke Japanese. While his character might be unusual, I supposed no Tibet traveler was ever “usual”. 
Later on, Akito told me he was a university professor, probably so I adjusted my Japanese honorifics. I could not remember both his and the French guy’s names, so they would henceforth be known as the professor and the French kid. I get to call him “kid” because he was two years younger. 
“Oanh is also in our group. We met and went to Potala yesterday.” Explained Akito to the professor and the French kid. Then turned to me, he said: “I and A. met Professor and FrenchKid yesterday, and we had dinner together.” So they were the ones that copped out.
“So, how was your adventure yesterday?” The professor inquired.
“We got attacked by porcupines.” I answered proudly. After all, not every one got to encounter a porcupine on their trip.
“Porcupine in Tibet?” The professor cried in amazement. 
“Yes, a hotel staff told us that they attack sometimes at night. Maybe not in daylight, so we are safe today.” I teased, tearing a small piece of bread.
“You said they attacked? What do you mean?” The professor was curious.
“They shot quills at us. A goose was shot yesterday.” I explained.
“That seems unlikely. Porcupines, or even hedgehogs, cannot shoot quills out of their body. Porcupine’s defense mechanism is rolling themselves like a needle ball.” The professor explained. 
“That is true.” The French guy chimed in. “My father is a biologist. He used to make traps to catch porcupines in preservation centers. They did not shoot quills, but they fell off trees when my dad climbed up. He had to turned his body to the other side, or he would get spiked. He actually got quilled when he, how do you say that in English,…” He let out a French word. To our surprise, the Japanese professor replied in French. The French guy rejoiced, and the two conversed in their newly found common speaks. 

Meanwhile, we three supposed porcupine victims eyed each other in silence. 
“So what was that yesterday?” A. asked us two.
“Not porcupine.” Akito determined.
“But the staff told us so じゃない？” I reminded him.
“I don’t think that staff was trustworthy.” Akito muttered under his breath. “Did you remember what she said?”
“Porcupines attack sometimes at night.” I recalled, matching his lowered volume.
“They shoot quills through the lake.” A. added, his volume too turned down a notch.
“Yes, but after that, she said “Poor goose.” Did you remember? How could she know what happened with the goose? We did not even mention the lake.” Akito pointed out. “Something isn’t right.”
Now, Akito was on the money here with his attention to details. Something did not feel right.
“So, what is it all about? Who can we trust?” I asked. Of this question, we all dreaded the answer.
“Let’s keep this to ourselves for now. Maybe this is just a misunderstanding.” Concluded A.. With that, we finished our breakfast.

At ten, the whole group met in front of the lobby. There were six people: the Wise Man, Akito, A., the professor, the French guy, and I.  When Lekhsey the tour guide showed up, he called our names and where we were from, going by the tour list. Our guide was a handsome man with a generous laugh. His left-ear pierce sparked gold. Lekhsey then shepherded us into a coach. I sat at the front by the window, next to the Wise Man. Behind us were the French guy and the Japanese professor. Behind them sat Akito, and at the last bench was A..

First, the coach went to Shangri La hotel to pick up two more guests.
“Have you ever been to the real Shanghai-La?” I asked the Wise Man.
“Yunnan, you mean? Yes. Neighboring Tibet, if you want to visit.” The Wise Man gleefully answered. “You read the novel?”
“No, I haven’t. I only read Seven years in Tibet.”
“Hah.” The Wise Man nodded. “Every one reads that book. Then I recommend the one about Shanghai-La.”
We chatted some more, until the coach went out of the old quarters, and entered the new town. Devoid of colors, wide roads, wide pavement, widely spaced out trees, the new town was hardly recognizable from the older counterpart. The coach climbed up a stiff hill to Shanghai-La the hotel, not the paradise. In fact, to the two guests that would join our group, it was more like hell. Lekhsey came inside for ten minutes and returned alone. The two guests were too sick to join us. 
The Wise Man turned to me:
“Hah, those two made me so proud of myself. I thought I was a mess. They stay in this fancy hotel, of course they won’t be able to endure this trip.” No wiser words had been spoken since our encounter. 

At this point, I did not tell the Wise Man, but I too felt a headache. The Tibetan coat was heavy and thick, causing me to constantly put it on, take it off. What if it was a cold? Did I get the Vietnamese wet hair headache? I wished not to die in Tibet. I already paid for return tickets.

The coach slowly left the city and reached a hilly road made up of thin, leafless tree barks. Lekhsey started off his chant:
“In Tibet, we have the “great three” monasteries of the Gelug Buddist sect: the Drepung, the Sera and the Ganden. Today, we will visit two, the Drepung and the Sera monasteries. Drepung is the largest monastery in Tibet, found in the fifteenth century by Jamyang Choge Tashi Palden. It was considered a prestigious monastic university, and was the residence of the Dalai Lamas before the Potala, which we will visit tomorrow.”
 
The coach left the new town, and headed to the countryside. My headache grew, and I could not follow what Lekhsey said anymore. In my experience, religious buildings would be far and isolated from the city, so I may get a good one or two hours of sleep before then, and let the headache subside. 

Contrary to my assumption, within thirty minutes, the coach finally stopped. Drepung was only five kilometers from the west of surburbian Lhasa, as incorporated in daily life as other religious aspect of this culture. We got off the car, by the foot of a mountain. In front of our eyes, was the largest monastery in Tibet, the Drepung.

YouTube





Hello hello, 
I have missed you. 
Welcome back. 

Last time, at the park behind Potala, 
I and my new companions were attacked by quills, 
and had to flee 
in an out-of-body experience.
We managed to get back to the hotel, 
Where a hotel staff informed us 
That it was a usual case 
of porcupine attack.
I had a hot shower, 
and went to bed 
with my hair semi dry. 
That was where we ended.
 
This time, we shall begin on a high note, The next morning. 

The first day of the tour coincided
 with the last day of the solar year. 
We would visit two monasteries: 
the Drepung 
and the Sera. 

For the first day, I put on my new coat. 
The Wise Man slept in, 
So I came to breakfast alone at seven forty. 

The cafeteria was a hall 
on the ground floor of the right wing. 
It could hold well over two hundred guests. 
From the entrance, 
I stepped into the food pickup area. 
They served breads, 
butter, jams, 
milk, porridge, 
pickles, eggs, 
some potato fried cakes. 
A women carried around a thermos 
to serve butter tea. 
I 
had a little bit of everything. 

The eating area of the room 
was filled 
with round tables for six. Most guests at the cafeteria were Tibetans. 

At the very end of the room, 
some foreigners gathered. 
There, I saw Akito and A. at one table 
with two other men. 
Before I could decide whether to join them, A. saw me 
and gave me his on-brand smile. 
I carried my tray to their table, 
and sat down next to Akito. 
“Good morning.” I chirped.
“Good morning, Oanh.” A. greeted back.

“Good morning,” said the two unknown men at the table. 
One man was East Asian, 
in his late forties, 
dressed neatly in a milk chocolate puffer jacket
 
with feather lined hood.
Feather, fancy! 

The second person looked like a one-eighty-meter stick
 in a light blue jacket, 
with curly dark hair and dark eyes.
As I said to Akito, 
“おはようございます。”, 
the East Asian man turned to me: 
“日本人ですか Excuse me, are you Japanese?” 
“いいえ、ベトナム人です。No, I’m Vietnamese.” 
The man continued casually:
“わたくしは、ハノイに行ったことがあります。
I have been to Hanoi. ” 
He did not even question where I learnt his mother tongue, 
as if Vietnamese people just spoke Japanese. 

While his character might be unusual, 
I supposed 
no Tibet traveler was 
ever “usual”. 

Akito told me that that man was a university professor, 
As a hint that I adjusted my Japanese honorifics. 

I said my name, 
and the men introduced themselves, 
but as I relay the story to you now, 
I have forgotten their names. 
As such, they would hereafter be known 
as 
the professor and the French kid. 

Akito bridged the conversation: 
“Oanh is also in our group. 
We met and went to Potala yesterday.” 
Then turned to me, he said: 
“I and A. met Professor and FrenchKid yesterday.
We had dinner together.” 

So They were the ones that copped out.

“So, how was your adventure yesterday?” 
The professor inquired.

“We got attacked by porcupines.” 
I answered proudly. 
After all, not every traveler got to encounter a porcupine.

“Porcupine in Tibet?” 
The professor cried in amazement. 
“Yes, a hotel staff told us 
that they attack sometimes at night. 
Not in daylight, 
so we are safe.” 
I teased, tearing a small piece of bread.

“You said they attacked? 
What do you mean?” 
The professor was curious.
“They shot quills at us. 
A goose was shot yesterday.” I explained.

“That seems unlikely. 
Porcupines, or even hedgehogs, 
cannot shoot quills out of their body. 
Porcupine’s defense mechanism 
is rolling themselves like a needle ball.” 
The professor explained. 
“That is true.” The French guy chimed in. 
“My father is a biologist. 
He used to make traps
 to catch porcupines in preservation centers. They did not shoot quills, 
but they fell off trees when my dad climbed up. 
He had to turned his body to the other side, or he would get spiked. 
He actually got quilled when he, ...how do you say that in English,…” 
The French kid let out a foreign word. 
To our surprise, 
the Japanese professor replied in French. 
The French kid rejoiced, 
and the two immediately began conversing in their newly found common speaks. 

Meanwhile, we supposed porcupine victims 
eyed each other in silence. 

A. finally asked:
“So, what was that yesterday?” 
to which, Akito determined:
“Not porcupine.”
“But the staff told us so じゃない？” I reminded Akito. 
He muttered back under his breath. 
“I don’t think that staff was trustworthy. Do you remember what she said?”
(small voice)
“Porcupines attack sometimes at night.” 
I recalled, matching his lowered volume.
A. added,
“They shoot quills through the lake.” 
his volume, too, 
turned down a notch.
“Yes, but after that, 
she said
“Poor goose.” 
Do you remember? 
How could she know about the goose? 
We did not even mention the lake.” Akito pointed out. 
“Something isn’t right.”

Now, Akito was on the money here 
with his attention to details. 
Something did not feel right.
“So, 
Who can we trust?” I asked. 

Of this question, 
we all dreaded the answer.

A. finally concluded. 
“Let’s not tell this to anyone yet. 
Maybe this is only misunderstanding.” 

With that, 
we finished our breakfast.

At ten, 
the whole group met 
in front of the lobby. 
There were six people: 
the Wise Man, 
Akito, A., 
the professor, 
the French kid, and I.  
I was the only female. 

Finally, the man of the name Lekhsey showed up.

Lekhsey was a pleasantly handsome man 
with a generous laugh. 
He was tanned all over
 like a SAILOR, 
with a streak of the bad boy smirk.
Yet, He also emanated a reliable aura.


How should I describe Lekhsey?
He was like lukewarm milk with turmeric, 
Comforting, with a hint of pungency. 
His left-ear pierce sparked gold in the Tibetan sun. 

Lekhsey called our names and where we were from, 
going by the tour list. 
He then shepherded us into a coach. 
I sat at the front by the window, 
next to the Wise Man. 
Behind us were the French kid and the professor. 
Behind them sat Akito. 

A. took the last bench. 
Funny 
he had a habit of going last, 
as if he were looking out for others.

First, the coach went to Shangri La hotel
 to pick up two more guests.
I asked the Wise Man.
“Have you ever been to the real Shangri-La?” 
“Yunnan, you mean? 
Yes. Neighboring Tibet, if you want to visit.” 
The Wise Man gleefully answered. 
He then asked. 
“You read Lost Horizon?”
“No, I haven’t. I wanted to. 
Uh, what’s the name of the author, 
something like a hotel name as well.” I dug through my memories.
“James Hilton.” We uttered in synchrony.  
“Right, he created the paradise Shangri La in that novel. 
I haven’t read it, only read Seven years in Tibet.”
“Hah.” The Wise Man nodded. 
“Every one reads that book. 
Then I recommend Lost Horizon. 
You will like it. 
You like books right?”
“Why would you think so?” I asked.
“It’s easy to tell.” 
The Wise Man paused for a bit to circle his temples. 
“I had this headache since yesterday. 
Not getting any younger.
I thought I could not make it,
But I felt better this morning.
Now, I just hope I survive today.”

We chatted some more, 
until the coach went out of the old quarters, 
and entered the new town. 

Devoid of colors, 
wide roads, wide pavement, widely spaced out trees, 
the new town was hardly recognizable 
from its older counterpart. 
The coach climbed up a stiff hill 
where we really lost horizon, to get to Shangri-La the hotel, 
not the paradise. 
In fact, for the two guests in Shangri La hotel, 
it was more like hell. 

Lekhsey came inside the hotel for ten minutes 
and returned alone. 
The two guests were too sick to join us. 
Turning to me, The Wise Man proclaimed:
“Hah, those two made me so proud of myself. 
I thought I was a mess. 
They stay in this fancy hotel, 
of course they won’t be able to endure this trip.” 
I chuckled. Nothing but wise words had been spoken 
since our encounter. 
At this point, I did not tell the Wise Man, 
but I too developed a headache. 
The Tibetan coat was heavy and thick, 
causing me to constantly put it on, take it off. 
Too hot, too cold.

What if it was a cold? 

Did I get the Vietnamese wet hair curse? 
I wished not to die in Tibet. 
I already paid for return tickets.

The coach slowly left the city 
and reached a hilly road
 made up of thin, leafless tree barks. 
Lekhsey started his chant:
“In Tibet, we have the “great three” monasteries 
of the Gelug Buddist sect: 
the Drepung, the Sera and the Ganden. 
Today, we will visit two, 
the Drepung and the Sera monasteries. 
Drepung is the largest monastery in Tibet, 
found in the fifteenth century 
by Jamyang Choge Tashi Palden. 
It was considered a prestigious monastic university, 
and was the residence of the Dalai Lamas 
before the Potala, 
which we will visit tomorrow.”
 The coach left the new town, and headed west to the countryside. 
My headache grew. 
I could not follow what Lekhsey said anymore. 
In my experience, 
religious bodies would be far 
and isolated from the city. 
Until we got to Drepung, 
I might get a good one or two hours of sleep. 
The headache might even subside. 
Contrary to my assumption, 
within thirty minutes, 
the coach finally stopped. 

Drepung was only five kilometers 
To the west of surburbian Lhasa.
Like other religious aspects of this culture, 
the monastery was never far from the heart of daily life. 
We got off the car, 
by the foot of a mountain. 

In front of our eyes, 
was the largest monastery in Tibet: the Drepung.

And that was the end of tonight. 
Next time, 
We will visit Drepung, 
Where an important character was given birth:
The White Prince.

For now, take care!
I will see you very soon. 








